---
title: MatTriad 2015
page: http://www.mattriad.ipt.pt/
start_date: 2015-09-07 12:00:00
end_date: 2015-09-11 12:00:00
where: Coimbra, Portugal
---

The purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers sharing an
interest in a variety of aspects of matrix analysis and its applications,
special emphasis being given to applications in other areas of Sceince. One of
the main goals is to highlight recent achievements in the mathematical domain.
The program will cover different aspects of matrix and operator theory, with
emphasis on:

   - recent developments in matrix and operator theory,
   - inverse spectral problems,
   - matrices and graphs,
   - applications of linear algebra tools in statistics,
   - matrix models in industry and sciences,
   - linear systems and control theory,
   - combinatorial matrix theory.

Researchers and graduate students interested in matrix and operator theory,
statistical models and computation are particularly encouraged to attend the
conference. The conference will provide a friendly atmosphere for the
discussion and exchange of ideas, which hopefully will lead to new scientific
links among participants.

The format of the meeting will involve plenary sessions and sessions with
contributed talks. The list of Invited Speakers will be opened by winners of
Young Scientists Awards of MatTriad'2013 promoted by the conference. We are
also planning two short courses for graduate students delivered by leading
experts as well as other conference participants.

The work of young scientists will receive a special consideration in the
MatTriad'2015. The best poster as well as the best talk of graduate students or
scientists with recently completed Ph.D. will be awarded. Prize-winning works
will be widely publicized and promoted by the conference.

