---
title:  "Modeling and Optimization: Theory and Applications"
page: http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta
start_date: 2015-07-20 12:00:00
end_date: 2015-07-22 12:00:00
where: Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
---

We cordially invite you to contribute to the fourteenth annual "Modeling and
OPtimization: Theory and Applications" (MOPTA) conference, organized at Lehigh
University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, July 20-22, 2015.

MOPTA aims at bringing together a diverse group of people from both discrete
and continuous optimization, working on both theoretical and applied aspects.
There will be invited plenary talks from distinguished speakers as well as
organized sessions and contributed talks, spread over three days.  Our target
is to provide a diverse set of exciting new developments from different areas
of optimization research while at the same time providing a setting which will
allow increased interaction among the participants.  We aim to bring together
researchers from both the theoretical and applied communities in the framework
of a medium-scale event who do not usually have the chance to interact in
larger meetings.

We welcome contributed talks, and we are also very interested in hearing from
people who could organize a session centered around one of their topics of
expertise. MOPTA sessions have 3 speakers, with 30 mins per presentation
including Q&amp;A's. Speakers will be kindly asked to submit their abstract on
the MOPTA website. The deadline for abstract submission is May 1.

Confirmed plenary speakers:

* Alper Atamt&uuml;rk (University of California-Berkeley)
* Amir Beck (Technion - Israel Institute of Technology)
* Mirjam D&uuml;r (University of Trier)
* Eugene Feinberg (SUNY)
* Ravi Mazumdar (Waterloo)
* Luis Nunes Vicente (Universidade de Coimbra) 
* Tong Zhang (Rutgers University)

Please contact  
  Alexander Stolyar (als714@lehigh.edu)
or  
  Martin Takac (Takac.MT@gmail.com)
if you would like to organize a session for MOPTA.
