---
title: GAMM Annual Meeting Braunschweig 2016 - Section on Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra
page: http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php/2016/joint-dmv-and-gamm-annual-meeting
start_date: 2016-03-07 12:00:00
end_date: 2016-03-11 12:00:00
where: Braunschweig, Germany
---

Dear colleagues,

The 87th Annual Meeting of the International Association of Applied
Mathematics and Mechanics (GAMM) will take place from 7th to the 11th
of March 2016 in Braunschweig, Germany
(<http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php>).

We are pleased to inform you that GAMM 2016 conference is jointly
organized with the German Mathematical Society
(<https://dmv.mathematik.de/>).


On behalf of the organizing committee we would like to invite you, your
colleagues, postdocs, PhD and master students to take an active part in
Section S17, "APPLIED AND NUMERICAL LINEAR ALGEBRA."

In general, contributed talks will have a length of 15 minutes plus 5
minutes for discussion. Once the abstracts have been received, depending
on the number of submissions and allowed time slots, we may have to select
an appropriate number of abstracts for presentations.

Please note that there will be four keynote lectures, each 35 minutes long,
distributed over the section sessions accordingly. We are greatly honored
that the following four speakers have agreed to present their work within
Section S17:

- Sabine Le Borne (TU Hamburg),
- Elisabeth Ullmann (TU Munich),
- Serkan Gugercin (Rice University),
- Stefan Guettel (University of Manchester).

For more detailed information concerning the submission of abstracts
as well as registration and accommodation, please visit the conference
website at <http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php/2016/joint-dmv-and-gamm-annual-meeting>


- Deadline for abstract submission is December 18.
- Deadline for early bird registration is December 31.
- Online registration opens on September 15, 2015 and will close on
  February 14, 2016.

We are looking forward to seeing and welcoming you in Braunschweig. Please
let us know if you have any questions regarding the scope or organization
of Section S17.

Section Organizers:

- Agnieszka Miedlar (`miedlar@math.tu-berlin.de`)
- Martin Stoll (`stollm@mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de`)

