---
title: "SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing 2016 (CSC16)"
page: http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16/
start_date: 2016-10-10 12:00:00
end_date: 2016-10-12 12:00:00
where: "Albequerque, NM, USA"
---

With the continuing advances in high-performance computing, the role of computational science and engineering (CSE) has extensively grown in importance over the last decades. At the same time scientific simulations continue to face a number of challenges and generate massive amounts of data. Many of the underlying problems here are combinatorial in nature and unified by a common set of abstractions, data structures, and algorithms, often based on graphs and hypergraphs. On a related front, data science and analytics have emerged as powerful methods of inquiry across a broad range of domains and pose various fundamental challenges associated with size and complexity of data that would greatly benefit from combinatorial methods. CSC16 provides a forum for researchers interested in the interaction of combinatorial mathematics and algorithms with CSE and/or data science.

CSC16 follows five successful CSC workshops held roughly biennially since 2004. A new feature of CSC16 is that there will be a peer-reviewed proceedings associated with the workshop. The proceedings will be published by SIAM and hosted at its platform <http://epubs.siam.org/series/pr>. The papers will be made permanently available with DOI links. SIAM proceedings are indexed by major scientific bibliography databases.  

Authors are invited to submit manuscripts that present original unpublished research in all areas of combinatorial scientific computing. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, 

* Combinatorial (discrete) models in scientific computing
* Graph and hypergraph algorithms in scientific computing
* Sparse matrix computations
* Combinatorial problems in data science and network science
* Combinatorial problems in Algorithmic Differentiation
* Combinatorial problems in optimization
* Applications of combinatorial scientific computing

### Types of Submissions

We invite two types of submissions. 

1. Full Papers. Papers should not exceed ten (10) pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. The SIAM macro to be used for paper preparation is available at http://www.siam.org/proceedings/macros.php. Accepted papers will be included in the proceedings, which will be published electronically by SIAM at its proceedings platform. Accepted papers will be presented at the workshop as talks.

2. Extended Abstracts. Abstracts should not exceed 2 pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. Accepted abstracts will be presented as talks at the workshop, but will not be published in the proceedings.

### Important Dates

Submission deadline (for both papers and abstracts):  May 2, 2016, 11:59pm PDT.  
Notification of Acceptance: July 5, 2016.

Submission will be handled through EasyChair (<http://www.easychair.org>).  
Specific link for submission will be provided later.

### Workshop Co-chairs

- Erik Boman, Sandia National Laboratories, USA
- Assefaw Gebremedhin, Washington State University, USA

### Program Committee

- Cevdet Aykanat, Bilkent University, Turkey 
- Aydin Buluc, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA 
- Edmond Chow, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA 
- Seshadri Comandur, University of California Santa Cruz, USA 
- David Gleich, Purdue University, USA 
- Laura Grigori, INRIA, France 
- Mahantesh Halappanavar, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA 
- Jonathan Hogg, Science and Technology Facilities Council, UK 
- Kamesh Madduri, Pennsylvania State University, USA 
- Siva Rajamanickam, Sandia National Laboratories, USA 
- Ilya Safro, Clemson University, USA 
- Masha Sosonkina, Old Dominion University, USA 
- Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University, Israel 
- Miroslav Tuma, Academy of Sciences, Czech Republic 
- Andrea Walther, Paderborn University, Germany 
- Stefan Wild, Argonne National Laboratory, USA 

### Steering Committee

- Rob Bisseling, Utrecht University, the Netherlands 
- Bruce Hendrickson, Sandia National Laboratories, USA 
- X. Sherry Li, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA 
- Uwe Naumann, University of Aachen, Germany 
- Alex Pothen, Purdue University, USA 
- Bora Ucar, CNRS and ENS Lyon, France 

### Further Information

Further information about the workshop, including submission and registration details will be made available at the workshop&#8217;s website at <http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16/>.
