---
title: SIAM Workshop on Network Science (NS16)
page: http://www.siam.org/meetings/ns16/
start_date: 2016-07-15 12:00:00
end_date: 2016-07-16 12:00:00
where: Boston, MA, USA
---
### SCOPE

Network science has a rich history, tracing its roots back 
through sociology, chemistry, biology, electrical engineering,
computer science, and topology all the way to Euler and the 
K&#246;nigsberg bridges nearly 300 years ago.  Network science 
studies the mathematical structure of the graphs that arise in 
these diverse fields, and the design, analysis, and applications
of algorithms that compute with and on them.  The goal of the 
SIAM Network Science workshop is to promote cross-fertilization 
among the communities that study and apply networks and graphs,
both inside and outside SIAM.  

NS'16 will be co-located in Boston with the 2016 SIAM Annual 
Meeting (July 11-15) and the SIAM Conference on Life Sciences 
(July 11-14).  


### KEY DATES

Submissions deadline:  February 25, 2016  
Notification:  March 31, 2016  
Preregistration and hotel deadline:  June 13, 2016  
SIAM NS'16:  July 15-16, 2016


### SUBMISSION

Submission site:  <http://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=siamns2016>  
Latex style:  <http://www.siam.org/meetings/ns16/siam-wns-style.zip>

We invite contributions focused on all aspects of mathematical, 
algorithmic, and computational techniques in network science.  

The workshop will feature three formats for contributed 
presentations: 25-minute talks, 5-minute lightning talks in the 
"Ignite" format (5 minutes, 20 slides, 15-second auto-advance), 
and posters.  The program committee will consider all 
submissions for all three presentation formats.  

Submit a 2-page abstract using the LaTeX style files provided 
on the NS'16 web site through the SIAM NS'16 EasyChair site. 
Accepted abstracts will be posted online in late May 2016;
authors will be required to submit LaTeX source adhering to 
the template in April 2016.


### IGNITE TALK FORMAT

The Ignite format is new for NS'16; see <http://www.ignitetalks.io> 
for a description.  We especially want to use this format to 
highlight work by early-career researchers.  If you feel your 
submission is particularly appropriate for an Ignite talk, 
please let us know using the checkbox on the EasyChair 
submission page.  


### ORGANIZATION

Workshop Co-Chairs:

- John Gilbert, UC Santa Barbara
- Blair D. Sullivan, NC State

Program Committee:

- Ulrik Brandes, Konstanz
- Bailey Fosdick, Colorado State 
- Assefaw Gebremedhin, Washington State 
- David Gleich, Purdue 
- Aric Hagberg, Los Alamos Lab
- David Kempe, USC
- Jeremy Kepner, MIT Lincoln Lab
- Carl Kingsford, Carnegie Mellon
- Christine Klymko, Lawrence Livermore Lab
- Dan Larremore, Santa Fe Institute
- Chris Long, US Department of Defense
- Vince Lyzinski, Johns Hopkins
- Aleksander Madry, MIT
- Vahab Mirrokni, Google 
- Fabrizio Petrini, IBM
- Cynthia Phillips, Sandia Labs
- Lev Reyzin, UI Chicago
- Johan Ugander, Stanford 
- Sebastiano Vigna, Milano
