---
title: ACM PASC16- Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference 2016
page: http://www.pasc16.org/fileadmin/conference/pasc16/Poster_ACM_Call_for_Papers.pdf
start_date: 2016-06-08 12:00:00
end_date: 2016-06-10 12:00:00
where: Lausanne, Switzerland
---
The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is inviting submissions for the Papers Session of its next conference (PASC16) cosponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC to be held from June 8 to 10, 2016 at the SwissTech Convention Center, located on the campus of the EPFL in Lausanne, Switzerland.

PASC's structure enables efficient communication between various areas arranged in the following eight domain-specific tracks:

   - Climate and Weather
   - Computer Science and Mathematics
   - Emerging Domains
   - Engineering
   - Life Sciences
   - Materials
   - Physics
   - Solid Earth

The PASC papers program is soliciting high-quality contributions in all 
of these areas. Papers will be presented during the PASC16 Conference and published in the ACM Digital Library associated with the PASC conference series. Areas of interest include (but are not limited to):

   - Implementation strategies for computational science applications
   - Programming languages and models for science domains
   - Tools for application development
   - Domain-specific libraries or frameworks
   - Use of heterogeneous or advanced computing for scientific applications

To ensure the highest quality contributions, the ACM publication process includes multiple stages of review.

Authors should first submit an abstract for their paper; the abstracts will not be reviewed but are necessary for logistical reasons.

Authors will be invited to submit their full paper (pdf) shortly after 
abstract submission. These papers will undergo a first round of review, and the strongest papers will be selected for a second round of review. Authors will have the opportunity to revise their manuscripts based on feedback prior to the second round of reviews.

Submissions will be evaluated double blind (authors should not be listed 
in the (pdf) paper; references to own previous work should be in the third person). Papers should be in the [ACM proceedings format][1] and should be no more than 10 pages in length (including everything besides 
references, for which there is no limit). We suggest using "An Author", "Another Author", etc. in the ACM templates, and leaving affiliations and contact details blank.

### SUBMISSION DEADLINES

To ensure a timely dissemination of research results, contributors are required to work according to the following schedule:

   - By January 15, 2016: Provide authors' data, and title and abstract of the paper (maximum 500 words)
   - By January 22, 2016: Provide the full paper (maximum 10 pages)
   - By February 26, 2016: First review notification
   - By March 11, 2016: Provide the revised paper (if the submission
     has been invited to go forward to the second round of review)
   - By April 7, 2016: Final review notification

### REVIEW PROCESS

The review process is organized in tracks. The editor of each track selects appropriate reviewers who are experts in the relevant area.

Submissions will be evaluated double blind: you must not include any information on the full paper (pdf) that reveals the identities of the authors or their affiliations.

Contributions are to be submitted using the PASC16 online system.

### PAPERS CHAIRS

- Torsten Hoefler (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)
- David Keyes (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia)

### EDITORIAL BOARD OF THE SCIENTIFIC TRACKS

- Climate & Weather: Michael Wehner (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory & University of California, USA)
- Solid Earth: Jeroen Tromp (Princeton University, USA)
- Life Sciences: Ioannis Xenarios (Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Switzerland)
- Physics: George Lake (University of Zurich, Switzerland)
- Computer Science & Mathematics: David Keyes (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia)
- Engineering: George Biros (The University of Texas, USA)
- Materials: Mark van Schilfgaarde (King's College London, UK)
- Emerging Domains: Omar Ghattas (The University of Texas, USA)

[1]: http://www.acm.org/publications/article-templates/proceedings-template.html 
