---
title: CSCS-USI Summer School on Effective High Performance Computing
page: http://goo.gl/VYnFE8
start_date: 2016-07-17 12:00:00
end_date:   2016-07-28 12:00:00
where: Hotel Serpiano, Switzerland
---

The Swiss National Supercomputing Centre (<http://www.cscs.ch>) and the
Institute of Computational Science (<http://www.ics.usi.ch>) at Universit&agrave;
della Svizzera italiana are pleased to announce the opening of the
selection process for participation in the annual Summer School. The
Summer School will be held from July 17 through July 28, 2016, in
Hotel Serpiano (<http://www.serpiano.ch>), located in the Italian area
of Switzerland.  The hotel is positioned on Mount San Giorgio, UNESCO
World Heritage site since 2003, wherefrom participants can enjoy an
incredible view of Ceresio lake and its surroundings.

The Summer School will focus on the effective exploitation of High
Performance Computing (HPC) systems, more details on the agenda can be
found on our webpage: <http://goo.gl/VYnFE8>

Please see the flyer in attachment and the youtube video from the 2015
Summer School: <https://goo.gl/UDwmST>

###REQUIREMENTS

The Summer School is dedicated to Master and Ph.D. students, academic
staff and professionals. Applicants have to match the following
requirements:

* Good knowledge of at least one of the following programming
languages: C++, C, or Fortran 90
* Familiarity with the UNIX/Linux OS and the basic programming
environment tools (terminals, editors, compilers)
* Require HPC skills for their work or research.

Only applicants who satisfy all requirements will be considered.
Participants will need to bring their own laptop for practical
sessions.

###CONTENT
The school will focus on the effective exploitation of High
Performance Computing (HPC) systems. Current and coming generations of
HPC systems are increasing in size and complexity. Multi-core
processors, general purpose graphic accelerators (GPUs), many-cores
accelerators (MIC), ultra-fast parallel storage devices, and high
bandwidth low-latency networks are being combined to be used
effectively for scientific and technical computing. On suitable
classes of algorithms, outstanding performance can be achieved with
power efficiency significantly higher than traditional architectures,
considerably minimising overall times-to-solution of high-end
scientific problems. An efficient usage of such hybrid architectures
is not a trivial task, often requiring a full redesign and refactoring
of the code in order to expose those features that can be optimally
exploited by a given hardware component, as massively parallel
algorithmic components, that can be effectively accelerated by the
GPU, or overlapping computation and communication in order to scale on
thousands of CPUs. Traditional parallel programming approaches, based
on the message-passing paradigm, are no longer sufficient to fulfil
this task, and innovative solutions need to be addressed.

During the two weeks of the school a number of such solutions will be
presented. The MPI, OpenMP, CUDA, OpenACC programming models will be
introduced, together with scientific libraries and efficient I/O and
data visualisation solutions and optimisation techniques. Their
effective combined usage, in order to achieve an ideal exploitation of
large hybrid architectures, will be discussed and experimented with
extensive practical and exercise lab sessions to help clarify and
consolidate the theoretical material presented.

The following topics will be covered:

* Message passing programming model and the MPI standard
* Shared memory systems and the OpenMP programming model
* Scientific libraries
* MPI I/O and other solutions for efficient data reading and writing
* GPU programming with CUDA and OpenACC
* Code optimization
* Scientific visualisation

###APPLICATION PROCESS
If you meet all requirements, please download the application form
(<http://goo.gl/hO38AD>) fill it in, and send it to
<summerschool2016@cscs.ch> no later than **Sunday, April 11, 2016**. Thirty
applicants will be selected to participate in the Summer School. You
will be notified about acceptance or rejection of your application by
Monday, April 27, 2016. Those candidates whose application successfully
passes the selection process will receive further information regarding
the registration.

###PARTICIPATION FEE

* Rate for academic staff, PhDs and university students: CHF 1'300
* Rate for non-academic professionals: CHF 2'600
* Fees include:
    - Eight full-day and one half-day intensive courses based on
theoretical and practical coaching in a group of 30 participants
    - Learning materials introduced by instructors
    - A visit to the Swiss National Supercomputing Centre (CSCS)
    - Double room accommodation together with another participant
throughout the duration of the course (eleven nights from
Sunday, July 17 through Thursday, July 28, 2016)
    - Breakfast, lunch and dinner during weekdays
    - Breakfast during the weekend

Participants can book additional nights at their expense before or
after the event at the same favorable rate of CHF 118 for a room with
double occupancy, or CHF 99 for a room with single occupancy.


