---
title: "Graph Algorithm Building Blocks (GABB) 2016: An IPDPS workshop"
page: http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2016.html
start_date: 2016-05-23 12:00:00
end_date: 2016-05-23 12:00:00
where: Chicago, IL
---
The Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms, introduced over 30 years ago, had a transformative effect on software for linear algebra. With the BLAS, researchers spend less time mapping algorithms onto specific features of hardware platforms and more time on interesting new algorithms.

 Would it be practical to define an analogous set of basic building blocks for graph algorithms?  Can we define a core set of mathematical primitives from which we can build most (if not all) important graph algorithms? If we can agree on the mathematical foundations, how would these interact with the data structures used in graph algorithms and result in an API the graph algorithms research community could support?

These questions will be the topic for the second "Graph Algorithms Building Blocks" workshop.  Our goal is an interactive workshop where the full range of issues behind "Graph Algorithms Building Blocks" will be explored.   We want an interactive "workshop" so papers that report preliminary results and unproven but interesting ideas will also be considered.


### Submission and Dates

Submitted manuscripts may not exceed ten (10) single-spaced double-column pages using 10-point size font on 8.5x11-inch pages (IEEE conference style), including figures, tables, and references (see IPDPS Call for Papers for more details). Papers shorter than 10 pages are welcome. All papers will be peer-reviewed. Proceedings of the workshops are distributed at the conference and are submitted for inclusion in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library after the conference.

Important dates: 

 - paper submissions due Jan 22, 2016, 
 - author notification: Feb 5, 2016, 
 - camera-ready due Feb 26, 2016\.

Workshop web page: <http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2016.html>  
Submission page (EDAS): <http://edas.info/newPaper.php?c=21807>.

 

### Program Committee

- Tim Mattson, Intel Corp. (Chair)
- David A. Bader, Georgia Institute of Technology
- Jonathan Berry, Sandia National Labs
- Ayd&#305;n Bulu&#231;, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab
- John Gilbert, UC Santa Barbara
- Jeremy Kepner, MIT Lincoln  Labs
- Chris Long, US Department of Defense
- Kamesh Madduri, Penn State University
- Henning Meyerhenke, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
- John Owens, University of California, Davis
- Fabrizio Petrini, IBM
- Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University
