---
title: 5th IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation
page: http://www.ima.org.uk/conferences/conferences_calendar/5th_ima_conference_on_numerical_linear_algebra_and_optimisation.cfm.html
start_date: 2015-09-07 12:00:00
end_date: 2015-09-09 12:00:00
where: University of Birmingham, UK
---

University of Birmingham, UK  
7-9 September 2016  
http://tinyurl.com/IMANLAO2016  

The IMA and the University of Birmingham are pleased to announce the
Fifth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization. The
meeting is co-sponsored by SIAM, whose members will receive the IMA
members' registration rate.

The success of modern codes for large-scale optimization is heavily
dependent on the use of effective tools of numerical linear
algebra. On the other hand, many problems in numerical linear algebra
lead to linear, nonlinear or semidefinite optimization problems. The
purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers from both
communities and to find and communicate points and topics of common
interest.

### CONFERENCE TOPICS
Direct and iterative methods for large sparse
linear systems. Eigenvalue computation and optimization. Large-scale
nonlinear and semidefinite programming. Effect of round-off errors,
stopping criteria, embedded iterative procedures. Optimization issues
for matrix polynomials. Fast matrix computations. Compressed/sparse
sensing. PDE-constrained optimization. Distributed computing and
optimization. Applications and real time optimization.

### INVITED SPEAKERS
- Tim Davis 
- Anders Forsgren 
- Andreas Frommer 
- Jacek Gondzio 
- Laura Grigori 
- Jennifer Scott 
- Lieven Vandenberghe

### IMPORTANT DATES
Mini-symposium proposals and contributed talks are invited on all
aspects of numerical linear algebra and optimization. Mini-symposium
proposals should be submitted to conferences@ima.org.uk by 31 March
2016\. A mini-symposium is limited to at most two sessions on a single
topic (maximum eight speakers). Organisers will be advised of
acceptance by 11 April 2016\. Contributed talks and mini-symposia talks
will be accepted on the basis of a one page extended abstract which
should be submitted by 30 April 2016 by e-mail to
conferences@ima.org.uk. Authors will be advised of acceptance by 31
May 2016\. A book of abstracts will be made available to delegates at
the conference.
