---
title: Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference 2017 (PASC17)
page:  https://pasc17.org/
start_date: 2017-06-26 12:00:00
end_date:   2017-06-28 12:00:00
where: Lugano, Switzerland
---

The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is inviting
submissions for the PASC17 Conference, co-sponsored by the Association
for Computing Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC, which will be held at the
Palazzo dei Congressi in Lugano, Switzerland, from June 26 to 28, 2017. 

The PASC Conference is an interdisciplinary conference in high-
performance computing that brings together domain science, applied
mathematics and computer science - where computer science is focused
on enabling the realization of scientific computation.

### TARGET AUDIENCE  
The PASC17 Conference invites participants from academia, research
laboratories and industry to discuss the state of the art in
computational science in the context of high-performance computing.
The conference is an opportunity for researchers in computational
science to present innovative research that can help address societal
challenges of today and the future.

### PROGRAM  
The PASC Conference offers three days of stimulating and thought-
provoking technical sessions, including keynote presentations,
minisymposia, peer-reviewed papers, panels and poster sessions. The
conference is co-sponsored by ACM SIGHPC, and papers are published in
the ACM Digital Library.

### CONTRIBUTIONS  
Researchers from academia and industry are encouraged to participate
and present their research in the form of papers, minisymposia and/or
posters. PASC17 welcomes submissions in the following scientific fields: 

- Climate and Weather  
- Computer Science and Mathematics  
- Emerging Domains (Special topic: HPC and Precision Medicine)  
- Engineering  
- Life Sciences  
- Materials Science and Chemistry  
- Physics  
- Solid Earth Dynamics  

### PAPERS  
The goal of the PASC papers initiative is to advance the quality of
scientific communication between the various disciplines of
computational science and engineering. The initiative is built from an
observation that the computer science community traditionally publishes
in the proceedings of major international conferences, while domain
science communities publish primarily in disciplinary journals - neither
of which is read regularly by the other disciplinary community. The PASC
papers initiative is focused on bringing these communities and
publishing cultures together.

By submitting papers to the PASC Conference, authors can benefit from
the rapid and broad dissemination of results afforded by the conference
venue and associated proceedings, as well as from the impact associated
with publication in a high-quality scientific journal (see below for
more details).

#### SUBMISSIONS
The PASC17 papers program is soliciting high-quality contributions of original research relating to high performance computing in the eight domain-specific tracks listed above. Areas of interest include (but are not limited to):  

- The use of advanced computing systems for large-scale scientific
applications  
- Implementation strategies for science applications in energy-efficient
computing architectures  
- Domain-specific languages, libraries or frameworks  
- The integration of large-scale experimental and observational
scientific data and high-performance data analytics and computing  
- Best practices for sustainable software development and scientific
application development  

Papers should be between 5 and 10 pages in length, including figures,
tables and appendices, but not references, for which there are no
limits. Contributions should be submitted through the PASC17 online
submissions portal at

<https://pasc17.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>

#### SUBMISSION DEADLINES 
The review process is designed in the following stages:

- January 23, 2017: Submissions close
- February 20, 2017: First review notification
- March 13, 2017: Revised submissions close
- April 11, 2017: Final review notification

#### PASC17 CONFERENCE AND PROCEEDINGS PUBLICATION

Accepted manuscripts will be published in the ACM Digital Library at the
time of the PASC17 Conference, June 26-28, 2017. Authors will be given
30-minute presentation slots at the conference, grouped in topically
focused parallel sessions.

#### POST-CONFERENCE JOURNAL SUBMISSION

Following the conference authors will have the opportunity to develop
their papers, and, where appropriate, associated open-source software,
for publication in a relevant, computationally focused, domain-specific
journal. The journal paper should be an expanded version of the
conference paper (consistent with the ACM policy for major revisions
\[1]) presenting a more complete description of the work - a fuller
introduction, deeper project description, additional results, etc. and
may be accompanied by associated open-source software.

To facilitate post-conference journal publications, the PASC Conference
has formed collaborative partnerships with a number of high-quality
scientific journals, including Computer Physics Communications (CPC)
[2], the Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems (JAMES) [3], and
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (ACM TOMS) [4]. Members of the
journals' editorial boards will work with the PASC Papers Committee in
reviewing PASC papers and in identifying papers to be extended and
submitted to partner journals. Authors should communicate their interest
in publishing with a partner journal during the review process. The
current membership of the PASC Partner Journal Editors Board is as
follows.

* Prof. Stan Scott, Computer Physics Communications, Editor-in-Chief &
Queen's University, Belfast  
* Dr. Robert Pincus, Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems
(JAMES), Editor-in-Chief & University of Colorado/ NOAA Earth System
Research Laboratory  
* Dr. Mike Heroux, ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS),
Editor-in-Chief & Sandia National Laboratory   

#### REVIEW PROCESS

The PASC17 Papers Committee, chaired by Dr. Jack Wells (Oak Ridge
National Laboratory) and Prof. Torsten Hoefler (ETH Zurich), is
responsible for reviewing submitted papers. The goal of the paper-
selection process is to combine the strengths of the conference and
journal publication schemes in order to execute an effective, high-
quality publication venue in large-scale computational science. We use
four key principles to design a paper selection process for PASC17: (1)
no pre-selected review committee, (2) short revision process, (3)
double-blind peer-review, and (4) expert reviewers suggested by primary
reviewers. For a more detailed discussion of this process see T.
Hoefler, 'Selecting Technical Papers for an Interdisciplinary
Conference: The PASC Review Process', in the Proceedings of the Platform
for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference (2016) [5]. Papers will be
evaluated on their significance, technical soundness, originality, and
quality of communication.

Papers should be in the ACM proceedings format [6]. As submissions will
be evaluated double blind, authors should not be named and references to
previous work should be in the third person. We suggest using "An
Author", "Another Author", etc., in the ACM templates, and leaving
affiliations and contact details blank.


### MINISYMPOSIA 
A minisymposium at PASC17 is a two-hour session of four presentations
on a single topic of current importance that addresses research topics
related to domain science, applied mathematics, computer science or
software engineering in the context of high performance computing.

The session should include speakers from more than one country, and be
designed such that the speakers bring a range of different
perspectives and views to the topic. Organizers are strongly
encouraged to include women and/or members of other underrepresented
groups in their proposals.

Please visit our website for submission guidelines:
<http://pasc17.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>

Deadlines for minisymposium submissions:  
8 January: Submissions close  
1 February: Acceptance notifications  


### POSTERS  
Guidelines regarding the submission process and access to the online
submission system are available at <http://www.pasc17.org/submission>.

Deadlines for poster submissions: 
9 February: Submissions close  
28 March: Acceptance notifications  

### ORGANIZATION

#### CONFERENCE CO-CHAIRS  
Olaf Schenk (Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
Horst Simon (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA)  

#### PAPERS CO-CHAIRS  
Jack Wells (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA)  
Torsten Hoefler (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)  

#### MINISYMPOSIA AND POSTERS CO-CHAIRS  
Rolf Krause (Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
Stefan Goedecker (University of Basel, Switzerland)  

#### MINISYMPOSIA TRACK CHAIRS

- Track Chair Chemistry and Materials:  
Anatole von Lilienfeld (University of Basel, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Climate & Weather:  
Peter Bauer (European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, UK)  
- Track Chair Computer Science & Applied Mathematics:  
Bastien Chopard (University of Geneva, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Emerging Domains in HPC:  
Martin Weiser (Zuse Institute, Germany)  
- Track Chair Engineering:  
Michael Puso (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA)  
- Track Chair Life Sciences:  
Igor Pivkin (Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Physics:  
Lucio Mayer (University of Zurich, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Solid Earth Dynamics:  
Dimitri Komatitsch (University of Aix-Marseille, France)  

Please refer to PASC17 website for further information about the
conference and the supporting organization at <http://www.pasc17.org>.


\[1]: To distinguish between a new derivative work and a minor revision,
ACM uses, respectively, a rule of greater than or less than 25 percent
changed.  
[2]: <http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications>  
[3]: <http://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1942-2466/>  
[4]: <http://toms.acm.org/>  
[5]: <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2929908>  
[6]: <http://www.acm.org/publications/article-templates/proceedings-template.html>   