---
title: MOPTA 2017
page: http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta/
start_date: 2017-08-16 12:00:00
end_date:   2017-08-18 12:00:00
where: Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, USA
---

Dear Colleague,

We wish to invite you to contribute to the 15th annual "Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications" (MOPTA) conference, held at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, USA, August 16-18, 2017.

MOPTA events bring together researchers from a broad range of optimization areas, working on theoretical or applied aspects, or both. There will be invited plenary talks from distinguished speakers, as well as organized sessions and contributed talks, spread over three days. 

Our objective is to offer presentations and discussions of exciting new developments from different areas of optimization; and to provide a convenient setting which allows increased interaction among the participants.  

We welcome contributed presentations. We will truly appreciate help if you are able to organize a session[s] centered around your expertise. MOPTA conference sessions consist of three 30-minute presentations, including Q&A. 

Please register and submit your abstract via the MOPTA 2017 website <http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta/>. The conference website offers extensive further information.

Important Dates  
Abstract Submission Deadline May 20, 2017  
AIMMS Modeling Competition Deadline June 15, 2017 23:59 EST  
Early Registration Deadline June 30, 2017 (All speakers have to register by this date)  
Registration Deadline August 13, 2017 (After this date on-site registrations is still possible)  
MOPTA Conference 16-18 August, 2017  

Please feel free to contact me (<jdp416@lehigh.edu>) or Martin Takac (<Takac.MT@gmail.com>) if you have professional questions related to the event.

Please contact Kathy Rambo (<kgr0@lehigh.edu>) with your more general questions related to conference logistics. 

Thank you for your interest. Please feel free to pass along this information to your potentially interested colleagues. 

Best regards,

Janos D. Pinter, PhD, DSc