---
title: International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017)
page:  https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu
start_date: 2017-06-19 12:00:00
end_date:   2017-06-23 12:00:00
where: Berkeley, CA, USA
---

The Symposium on Solid and Physical Modeling 2017 (SPM-2017) will be co-located in Berkeley, California with Shape Modeling International (SMI) as part of the International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017) (<https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/>).

SPM seeks high quality, original research contributions that strive to advance all aspects of geometric and physical modeling, and their application in design, analysis and manufacturing, as well as in biomedical, geophysical, digital entertainment, and other areas.  The symposium is organized with the support of the Solid Modeling Association (SMA), which will award the 2017 Pierre B&eacute;zier Prize for contributions to solid, shape, and physical modeling during the conference.

Accepted full-length papers will be published as a journal special issue in Computer-Aided Design (Elsevier).

###UPDATES
This is a Solid Modeling Association (SMA) update on exciting recent developments for the International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017) (<https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu>) to take place in Berkeley, CA on June 19-23, 2017.

 * We have five financial sponsors supporting S3PM: Autodesk (Gold), Siemens (Gold), PARC (Gold), University of Wisconsin (Gold), Elsevier (Silver). Thank you sponsors!  
 * We have "in cooperation" status with ACM and with Eurographics.  
 * We have applied for NSF funding to support student participants.  

Specific updates about Symposium on Solid and Physical Modeling 2017 (SPM-2017):  

 * Accepted papers will be published as full peer reviewed papers in the CAD journal.  
 * SPM will offer Best Paper Awards.  
 * The deadline for abstracts is March 28, 2017.  
 * The submission details are available at <https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/spm.html#submission> 

Please consider contributing with paper submissions and your presence. Also, please help us to promote this CfP by forwarding to colleagues and students. Hope to see you there.
 
Jarek Rossignac, Chair of SMA
 
P.S.: Please ask your students and colleagues to join the SMA today (<http://solidmodeling.org/join-solid-modeling-association/>). They need to be involved and help us advance this field. Thanks.
 
###IMPORTANT DATES
 
Important dates for SPM: <https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/spm.html#dates>

WHEN:    SPM (June 19th-21st) followed by SMI (June 21st-23rd)  
WHERE:   UC Berkeley Campus, Berkeley, California, USA


### TOPICS  
 * 3D fabrication/printing/manufacturing technologies  
 * Anisotropic/heterogeneous/composite materials  
 * Applied algebraic and differential geometry  
 * Applied computational geometry and topology  
 * Conceptual, collaborative, and distributed design  
 * Computational fabrication  
 * Curve, surface, and manifold modeling  
 * Dimensioning and tolerancing  
 * Feature modeling, recognition, and understanding  
 * Geometric algorithms  
 * Geometric and topological representations  
 * Geometric constraint solving and parametric modeling  
 * Geometric interpolation and smoothing  
 * Geometry generation and processing  
 * Geometry compression and transmission  
 * Isogeometric analysis  
 * Meshing and mesh optimization  
 * Multi-resolution modeling  
 * Numerical analysis of geometric algorithms  
 * Physically-based modeling and simulation  
 * Product data exchange, standards, and interoperability  
 * Reverse engineering/reconstruction of surfaces/solids  
 * Robustness and validity of geometric computations  
 * Shape modeling, synthesis, and analysis   

### IMPORTANT DATES FOR THE SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF FULL PAPERS:
Abstract for full papers: Tuesday, February 18, 2017  
Full paper submission: Monday, February 24, 2017  
First review notification: Friday, April 7, 2017  
Final notification of acceptance: Friday, April 28, 2017  
Camera ready full papers due: Friday, May 5, 2017  

**S3PM Convention Chair:**  
Vadim Shapiro (University of Wisconsin-Madison)
 
**SPM Conference Chair:**  
Sara McMains (University of California, Berkeley)
 
**SPM Program Chairs:**  
Mario Botsch (Bielefeld University)  
Stefanie Hahmann (University of Grenoble Alpes)  
Jessica Zhang (Carnegie Mellon University)
 
 
	