---
title: Sparse Days
page: http://cerfacs.fr/en/sparse-days-2017-at-cerfacs/
start_date: 2017-09-07 12:00:00
end_date: 2017-09-08 12:00:00
where: CERFACS, Toulouse, France
---

The annual Sparse Days meeting will be held at CERFACS in Toulouse 
on 7th and 8th September 2017 although (see below) it might be 
extended to start on 6th September. 

Registration is free but we ask people who are coming to register 
now so we can judge numbers to see whether the extra day is needed 
and how large a lecture room we will need. The reason for this is 
that much preliminary interest has been shown because the meeting 
will inter alia celebrate a significant birthday of Professor 
Iain Duff, who was Project Leader of the Parallel Algorithms Team 
from its inception in 1987 until 2010 and is still a consultant to 
the Team. 

You should register before July 16th by completing the online form: 
<http://cerfacs.fr/en/sparse-days-2017-at-cerfacs/> (English), or 
<http://cerfacs.fr/colloque-sparse-days-2017-cerfacs/> (French) 
indicating whether you want to give a talk. We will not have any 
parallel sessions hence the need to know this when planning the 
schedule. Although an emphasis will be on parallel aspects, any talk 
that has an association with sparsity is welcome. The length for a 
talk plus questions is 30 minutes. 

Information on accommodation can be found on the web page and a 
limited amount of free on site accommodation should be available for 
students. Students wanting to apply for this accommodation should 
contact Brigitte Yzel on <yzel@cerfacs.fr>. 

A celebratory conference dinner will be held on Thursday 
September 7th that will hopefully be heavily subsidised, especially 
for students. 