---
title: Manitoba Workshop on Mathematical Imaging Science
page: http://server.math.umanitoba.ca/~kirkland/MWMIS_index.htm
start_date: 2017-05-05 12:00:00
end_date:   2017-05-05 12:00:00
where: Manitoba, Canada
---

On 5 May 2017, the University of Manitoba will host the Manitoba Workshop on Mathematical Imaging Science. This workshop will focus on the mathematical issues and computational techniques that lie at the heart of many problems in imaging science. An intense one-day immersion into the mathematical and computational sides of imaging science, the MWMIS will feature four high-profile invited lecturers to speak on their current research in mathematical imaging science, and will also include contributed talks on the workshop's theme. The MWMIS will bring together researchers working across imaging science to foster collaborations, uncover commonalities, and identify key challenges of mutual interest.

Invited Speakers:  

 - Charles Epstein (University of Pennsylvania)  
 - Misha Kilmer (Tufts University)  
 - James Nagy (Emory University)  
 - Raquel Urtasun (University of Toronto)  

Contributed talks:

Participants have the option to give contributed talks or present posters. Those participants who wish to present a short (likely 20-30 minutes) lecture, or a poster, should send a title and 250 word abstract to Omit Chanda at <omit.sust@gmail.com>.

Deadline for Title/Abstract submission: 14 April 2017.

Registration:

To register, email <omit.sust@gmail.com> and include the following information: your name and institution; your position (faculty member, postdoctoral researcher, graduate student, undergraduate student); whether you plan to give a talk or present a poster. (Your title/abstract can be submitted with the registration or separately.) For planning purposes, please let us know whether you will attend the workshop by 21 April 2017.

Student Support:  

Partial financial support for travel and/or accommodation expenses is available to a limited number of participants who are students or postdoctoral researchers at PIMS sites outside of Manitoba. Priority will be given to students/postdocs who contribute a talk or a poster. To request financial support, please email <omit.sust@gmail.com>. The deadline for requests is 31 March 2017.

Updated information will be posted on the conference web page as it becomes available; see <http://server.math.umanitoba.ca/~kirkland/MWMIS_index.htm>.

We look forward to welcoming you to the MWMIS! 