---
title: Graph Algorithm Building Blocks (GABB) 2017
page:  http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2017.html
start_date: 2017-05-29 12:00:00
end_date:   2017-05-29 23:00:00
where: Orlando, Florida, USA
---

An IEEE IPDPS 2017 Workshop

=== Scope and Goals ===

This workshop series started with the narrow goal of exploring the definition of a set of basic building blocks for graph algorithms (http://graphblas.org), analogous to the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) in numerical linear algebra. Over the years, our scope has expanded.  We’ve welcomed a wide range of papers into GABB covering graph computations with an emphasis on high-performance and parallel computing. We expect this trend to continue in 2017.

In particular, while we retain our focus on "building blocks" for graph computations (including those not based on linear algebra), we also welcome work that focuses on libraries and frameworks to support applications that use graph algorithms.

Our target audience is developers of graph algorithms, researchers in high-performance computing working on irregular applications, applied mathematicians working on fundamental algorithmic building blocks for graph computations, and application scientists using graphs in their computational work and data analysis.

=== Submission and Dates ===

Submitted manuscripts may not exceed ten (10) single-spaced double-column pages using 10-point size font on 8.5x11-inch pages (IEEE conference style), including figures, tables, and references (see IPDPS Call for Papers for more details). All papers will be peer-reviewed. Proceedings of the workshops are distributed at the conference and are submitted for inclusion in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library after the conference.

Important dates:  
Submissions due: January 15, 2017 EST 23:59pm  
Notification: February 15, 2017  
Final Camera-Ready Manuscript due: March 1, 2017  

- Workshop web page: <http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2017.html>  
- Submission page: <https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=gabb17>  

=== Program Committee ===

David A. Bader, Georgia Institute of Technology  
Aydın Buluç, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (co-chair)  
Jonathan Berry, Sandia National Labs  
John Gilbert, UC Santa Barbara  
Vasia Kalavri, KTH Royal Institute of Technology  
Jeremy Kepner, MIT Lincoln  Labs  
Chris Long, US Department of Defense  
Andrew Lumsdaine, Pacific Northwest National Lab and University of Washington  
Tim Mattson, Intel Corp. (co-chair)  
Kamesh Madduri, Penn State University  
Henning Meyerhenke, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology  
John Owens, University of California, Davis  
Fabrizio Petrini, Inter Corp.  
Semih Salihoglu, University of Waterloo  
Edgar Solomonik, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign  
Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University  
