---
title: GAMM annual meeting 2018, Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra
page: http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php
start_date: 2018-03-19 12:00:00
end_date: 2018-03-23 12:00:00
where: Munich, Germany
---


Dear colleagues,

the 89th Annual Meeting of the International Association of Applied
Mathematics and Mechanics (GAMM) will take place from the 19th to
the 23th of March 2018 in Munich, Germany.

On behalf of the organizing committee we would like to invite you,
your colleagues, postdocs, PhD and master students to take an active
part in Section S17

            "APPLIED AND NUMERICAL LINEAR ALGEBRA".

We are happy to announce that there will be two special topical
lectures, each 40 minutes long.  We are greatly honored that the
following distinguished speakers have agreed to present their work
within Section S17:

-  Peter Butkovic (University of Birmingham)
-  Bart Vandereycken (University of Geneva)

Contributed talks in this session will have a length of 15 minutes
plus 5 minutes for discussion. Once the abstracts have been received,
depending on the number of submissions and allowed time slots, we may
have to select an appropriate number of abstracts for presentations.

Important dates:

- Deadline for abstract submission: December 4, 2017.

- Deadline for early bird registration: December 18, 2017.

- Online registration will close on February 5, 2018.

For more detailed information concerning the submission of abstracts,
registration and accommodation, please visit the conference website at

<http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php>

We are looking forward to seeing and welcoming you in Munich. Please
let us know if you have any questions regarding the scope or
organization of Section S17.

Best wishes,

Iveta Hnetynkova (<hnetynkova@cs.cas.cz>)  
Robert Luce (<robert.luce@epfl.ch>)  

(Section Organizers)



RNDr. Iveta Hnetynkova, PhD.  
Department of Numerical Mathematics  
Faculty of Mathematics and Physics  
Charles University  
Sokolovska 49/83  
186 75 Praha 8  

<hnetynkova@cs.cas.cz>


Robert Luce  
EPFL  
Station 8  
1015 Lausanne  
Suisse  

<robert.luce@epfl.ch>