---
title: Sixth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization
page: https://ima.org.uk/7149/6thimanlao/
start_date: 2018-06-27 12:00:00
end_date:   2018-06-29 12:00:00
where: University of Birmingham, UK
type: cooperation
---

The IMA and the University of Birmingham are pleased to announce the Sixth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization. The meeting is being held in cooperation with SIAM, and SIAM Activity Groups on Optimization and on Linear Algebra. SIAM members will receive the IMA members' registration rate.

##Scope##

The success of modern codes for large-scale optimization is heavily dependent on the use of effective tools of numerical linear algebra. On the other hand, many problems in numerical linear algebra lead to linear, nonlinear or semidefinite optimization problems. The purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers from both communities and to find and communicate points and topics of common interest.
Conference topics include any subject that could be of interest to both communities, such as:  

- Direct and iterative methods for large sparse linear systems  
- Eigenvalue computation and optimization  
- Large-scale nonlinear and semidefinite programming  
- Effect of round-off errors, stopping criteria, embedded iterative procedures  
- Optimization issues for matrix polynomials  
- Fast matrix computations  
- Compressed/sparse sensing  
- PDE-constrained optimization  
- Distributed computing and optimization  
- Applications and real time optimization  

*Invited speakers*: Amir Beck (Technion Haifa); Julian Hall (University of Edinburgh); Misha Kilmer (Tufts University); Dominique Orban (Polytechnique Montr&eacute;al); Alison Ramage (University of Strathclyde); Fran&ccedil;oise Tisseur (University of Manchester); Luis Nunes Vicente (University of Coimbra); Steve Wright (University of Wisconsin)

Organising committee: Michal Ko&ccaron;vara, University of Birmingham (co-chair); Daniel Loghin, University of Birmingham (co-chair); Coralia Cartis, University of Oxford; Nick Gould, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory; Philip Knight, University of Strathclyde; Jennifer Scott, University of Reading and Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
The conference will be hosted by the University of Birmingham. Talks will take place in the School of Mathematics.

Instructions for authors: Mini-symposium proposals and contributed talks are invited on all aspects of numerical linear algebra and optimization. Mini-symposium proposals should be submitted to conferences@ima.org.uk by 31 January 2018. A mini-symposium consists of up to four speakers. For emerging topics the mini-symposium can be extended to at most two sessions on a single topic (maximum eight speakers). Organisers will be advised of acceptance by 12 February 2018. Contributed talks and mini-symposia talks will be accepted on the basis of a one page extended abstract which should be submitted by 28 February 2018 online at https://my.ima.org.uk. Authors will be advised of acceptance by 31 March 2018. A book of abstracts will be made available to delegates at the conference.

Key dates  

Mini-symposia proposals: 31 January 2018  
Notification of acceptance of mini-symposia: 12 February 2018  
Abstract submission: 28 February 2018  
Notification of acceptance of abstracts: 31 March 2018  
Conference: 27-29 June 2018  
Conference webpage: <https://ima.org.uk/7149/6thIMANLAO/>  

For further information or to register your interest in this conference, please contact Lizzi Lake, Conference Officer: email <conferences@ima.org.uk>, tel 44 (0) 1702 354 020, Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, Catherine Richards House, 16 Nelson Street, Southend-on-Sea, Essex, SS1 1EF, UK.
