---
title: ACM PASC18, Basel, July 02-04, 2018
page: https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org
start_date: 2018-07-02 12:00:00
end_date:   2018-07-04 12:00:00
where: Basel, Switzerland
---

The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is pleased to
announce that submissions will open on October 25 for the PASC18
Conference, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM). Submissions are invited for papers, minisymposia and poster
presentations. PASC18 will be held from July 02 to 04, 2018, at the
Congress Center Basel, Switzerland (<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org>)

The PASC18 Organizing Team is pleased to announce that submissions are
now open for minisymposium, paper and poster contributions. We look
forward to receiving your submissions through the online submission
portal (<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>).
Please note that the November 26th deadline for minisymposia proposals
is rapidly approaching!

**CONFERENCE**

PASC18 is the fifth edition of the PASC Conference series, an
international platform for the exchange of competences in scientific
computing and computational science, with a strong focus on methods,
tools, algorithms, application challenges, and novel techniques and
usage of high performance computing. The theme of PASC18 is Fast and
Big Data, Fast and Big Computation, emphasizing our vision of the
close coupling of data and computation. Exposing and expressing
massive and irregular parallelism in computational problems are key
challenges for exploiting the massive and heterogeneous parallelism
available in current, and expected in future, HPC systems, as well as
to find new ways of generating scientific insight from data and
models. Through its rich and interactive program, PASC18 aims to
highlight the computational approaches that computational scientists,
computer scientists, and practitioners employ today and will employ
over the next decades to address these challenges.

**CONTRIBUTIONS**

PASC18 welcomes submissions for minisymposium, paper, and poster
contributions that demonstrate innovative research in scientific
computing related to the following scientific domains:  

- Chemistry and Materials  
- Life Sciences  
- Physics  
- Climate and Weather  
- Solid Earth Dynamics  
- Engineering  
- Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
- Emerging Applications Domains (e.g. Social Sciences, Finance,...)  

Upcoming Submission Deadlines  

- Minisymposia: November 26, 2017  
- Papers: January 19, 2018  
- Posters: February 4, 2018  

**MINISYMPOSIA**

A minisymposium at PASC18 is a two-hour session of four presentations
on a topic of current importance in computational science that
showcases research related to domain science, applied mathematics,
computer science or software engineering. Proposals should describe
research that is of significant current interest to a given PASC
scientific domain, and ideally, have potential application to
additional domains. Proposals should include speakers from multiple
institutions and/or countries, and be designed such that the speakers
bring a range of different perspectives to the topic. PASC18
encourages gender balance and diversity.

**PAPERS**

The goal of the PASC papers program is to advance the quality of
interdisciplinary exchange between the various specific fields of
computational science and engineering. We welcome high-quality
contributions of original research related to scientific computing in
any of the eight PASC scientific domains. Papers will be evaluated by
domain experts primarily on their significance, technical soundness,
originality, and quality of communication. Papers accepted for PASC18
will be presented as talks, and published in the Proceedings of the
PASC Conference, accessible via the ACM Digital Library. A selection
of the highest quality papers may be given the opportunity of a
plenary presentation. In selecting papers for plenary presentation,
the Scientific Reviewing Committee will place particular weight on
impact, interdisciplinarity and interest to a broad audience.
Following the conference, authors will have the opportunity to further
develop their PASC papers for publication in a relevant,
computationally focused, domain-specific journal. Authors thus stand
to benefit from the rapid and broad dissemination of results afforded
by the conference venue and associated published proceedings, as well
as the impact associated with publication in a high-quality scientific
journal.

**POSTERS**

Poster presentations provide an ideal opportunity for the exchange of
ideas and expertise within and between the various computational
science domains represented at the conference. Poster submissions
should describe topical research related to domain science, applied
mathematics, computer science or software engineering. Poster
presenters will be given the possibility to "pitch" their posters to
the conference audience in a rapid-fire flash session, and posters
with the most stimulating content will be recognized in an award
ceremony on the final day of the conference.

  SUBMISSION GUIDELINES:   
<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>

**PAPERS, MINISYMPOSIA, AND POSTERS PROGRAM CHAIRS**  


-Sabine Roller (University of Siegen, Germany)  
-Jack Wells (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)  

