---
title: 2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18)
page: https://www.siam.org/meetings/pp18/
start_date: 2018-06-05 12:00:00
end_date: 2018-06-08 12:00:00
where: University of Bologna, Italy
---

The 2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18) will be held at the
University of Bologna in Bologna, Italy, June 5-8, 2018.
Please note the upcoming deadlines for submission of minisymposium
proposals (October 1) and contributed lectures, minisymposium
presentations, and posters (November 5). Further conference
information can be found below and at
<https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it>.

-----
2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18)  
Location: University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy  
Dates: June 5-8, 2018  
Website: <https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it>

Sponsors:  
The conference is sponsored by SIAM Activity Group on Imaging Science
(SIAG/IS) and the Bologna Committee for IS Conference 2018 (BCIS18).
It is being held in cooperation with the IEEE Signal Processing
Society (IEEE) and Gesellschaft f&uuml;r Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik
e.V. (GAMM).

Conference Co-Chairs:  
Omar Ghattas (The University of Texas at Austin)  
Fiorella Sgallari (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  

Scientific Committee:  
Marcelo Bertalm&iacute;o (University Pompeu Fabra)  
Julianne Chung (Virginia Tech)  
Per Christian Hansen (Technical University of Denmark)  
Jari Kaipio (The University of Auckland)  
Eric Miller (Tufts University)  
Mila Nikolova (CMLA - CNRS ENS Cachan)  
Ronny Ramlau (Kepler University Linz and Johann Radon Institute)  
Carola-Bibiane Sch&ouml;nlieb (University of Cambridge)  
Gabriele Steidl (Technische Universit&auml;t Kaiserslautern)  
Xue-Cheng Tai (Hong Kong Baptist University)  
Laura Waller (University of California, Berkeley)  
Brendt Wohlberg (Los Alamos National Laboratory)  

Organizing Committee:  
Carolina Beccari (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Giulio Casciola (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Salvatore Cuomo (Dept. Mathematics and Applications "Renato Caccioppoli", University of Naples)  
Luigi Di Stefano (Dept. Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna)  
Giovanni Dore (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Maurizio Falcone (Dept. Mathematics, University of Rome "La Sapienza")  
Luca Formaggia (Dept. Mathematics - Milan Polytechnic)  
Patrizio Frosini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Germana Landi (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Alessandro Lanza (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Damiana Lazzaro (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Elena Loli Piccolomini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Roberto Mecca (University of Bologna and University of Cambridge)  
Serena Morigi (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Michele Piana (Dept. Mathematics, University of Genoa)  
Giulia Scalet (Dept. Civil Engineering and Architecture, University of Pavia)  
Federica Sciacchitano (Dept. Mathematics, University of Genoa)  
Valeria Simoncini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Giulia Spaletta (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Fabiana Zama (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  

During the conference the Organizing Committee will give two special
awards to promote and reward new ideas:  

- IS18 best poster award: 2000 Euros
- IS18 best challenging application award (among posters and minisymposia): 1000 Euros

Important Dates and Deadlines:  

- October 01, 2017 - Minisymposium proposals   
- November 05, 2017 - Contributed Lecture and Minisymposium Presentation Abstracts  
- November 05, 2017 - Poster Abstracts  
- April 04, 2018  - Early registration deadline  

Submission information: <https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it/submissions>  
Additional information: email <siam-is2018@unibo.it>