---
title:  2019 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation
page: http://www.cec2019.org/
start_date: 2019-06-10 12:00:00
end_date: 2019-06-13 12:00:00
where: Te Papa Tongarewa, Wellington, New Zealand
---


Dear Colleague,

On behalf of the organizing committee, it is our great pleasure to invite you to the annual IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation (CEC), which is one of the leading events in the area of evolutionary computation. IEEE CEC provides a forum to bring together researchers and practitioners from all over the world to present and discuss their research findings on evolutionary computation.
 
IEEE CEC 2019 will be held at the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, New Zealand's national museum located in Wellington. Known as the "Coolest Little Capital", Wellington combines big city chic with small village charm, and is a fantastic conference destination to boot. As the country's cultural and creative hub, Wellington is home to industry leaders in high tech innovation and with the highest concentration of people employed in the information, communications and media sector. Connectivity between knowledge, technology and people drives Wellington's vision to be Smart Capital.
 
Wellington is renowned for its friendly locals and impeccable service. Wellingtonians absolutely positively believe in their city and that pride transcends into the services they provide. It offers a wide range of cosmopolitan amenities in downtown that is safe, clean, pedestrian friendly. Pulsing with packed cafes, bars, boutiques, galleries, public art and museums, the country's urban heart is a destination where all the best things in life come together.
 

**Call for Papers**

Papers for IEEE CEC 2019 should be submitted electronically through the Congress website at <www.cec2019.org>, and will be refereed by experts in the fields and ranked based on the criteria of originality, significance, quality and clarity.
 
**Call for Special Sessions**

Special session proposals are invited to IEEE CEC 2019. Special session proposals should include the title, aim and scope (including a list of main topics), and the names of the organizers of the special session, together with a short biography of all organizers. A list of potential contributors will be very helpful. All special sessions proposals should be submitted to the Special Session Chair: Prof Chuan-Kang Ting (<ckting@pme.nthu.edu.tw>).
 
**Call for Tutorials**

Tutorials offer a unique opportunity to disseminate in-depth information on specific topics in evolutionary computation. If you are interested in proposing a tutorial, would like to recommend someone who might be interested, or have questions about tutorials, please contact the Tutorial Chair: Prof Xiaodong Li (<xiaodong.li@rmit.edu.au>).
 
**Call for Competitions**

The competitions will be held as part of the conference. Prospective competition organizers are invited to submit their proposals to the Competition Chair: Dr Jialin Liu (<jialin.liu@qmul.ac.uk>).
 
**Call for Workshops**

The overall purpose of a workshop is to provide participants with the opportunity to present and discuss novel research ideas on active and emerging topics of evolutionary computation. Prospective workshop organizers are invited to submit their proposals to the Workshop Chair: Dr Handing Wang (<handing.wang@surrey.ac.uk>).
 
**Important Dates**

- Special Session Proposals Deadline: 26 October 2018.   
- Competition Proposals Deadline: 26 November 2018.  
- Workshop & Tutorial Proposals Deadline: 7 January 2019.  
- Paper Submission Deadline: 7 January 2019.  
- Paper Acceptance Notification Date: 7 March 2019.  
- Camera Ready Submission & Early Registration Deadline: 31 March 2019.  
- IEEE CEC 2019: 10-13 June 2019. 

For more information about IEEE CEC 2019, please visit: <http://www.cec2019.org>. 
PDF version of this CFP can be downloaded from: [Call for Papers.pdf](http://cec2019.org/assets/downloads/CEC2019_CFP.pdf)

Alternatively, we can also be reached on the following social media platforms:

- Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/cec2019>.  
- Twitter: <https://twitter.com/cec_2019>.  
- Linkedin: <https://www.linkedin.com/company/cec2019>.  
- Wechat: Please search in official account with keyword "CEC2019".  

We look forward to welcoming you in Wellington next year! 

Best Regards,   
Mengjie Zhang and Kay Chen Tan   
IEEE CEC 2019 General Co-Chairs 
