---
title:  Threshold Networks Workshop
page: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/conference/fac-sci/maths-sci/threshold-networks/
start_date: 2019-07-22 12:00:00
end_date: 2019-07-24 12:00:00
where: Nottingham, UK
---


This workshop will bring together a community of people interested in both
networks and dynamics, with an eye to both mathematical tractability
and applications to biology, engineering, physics, and the social sciences. 
 The emphasis will be on 'thresholds' in their broadest sense as exemplified by 
node dynamics or interactions that are described by simple, yet possibly 
non-smooth or discontinuous switch-like processes.  The workshop will cover 
both theory and applications.

The meeting will have no parallel sessions, and it is expected to involve 
around 60 participants (with 12 main speakers) and contributed poster 
presentations.

Speakers:

Alex Arenas, Universidad Rovira i Virgili, Spain   
Mario Di Bernardo, University of Bristol, UK  
Ginestra Bianconi, Queen Mary University of London, UK  
Des Higham, University of Strathclyde, UK  
Renaud Lambiotte, University of Oxford, UK  
Naoki Masuda, University of Bristol, UK  
Peter Mucha, University of North Carolina, USA  
Sarah Muldoon, University at Buffalo, USA  
Yamir Moreno, University of Zaragoza, Spain   


Important dates

Registration deadline: 1st June 2019  
Poster abstract submission deadline: 12th April 2019.  
Notification of acceptance: 1st May 2019

The registration fee for the conference is 100.00 GBP.

A 'Tutorial Day' (covering key concepts in dynamical systems and network 
science) will also take place prior to the meeting (on July 21).  Some
financial assistance may be available to assist graduate students who attend
both the training workshop and the conference.

Further details of this meeting and how to register may be  found at
<https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/conference/fac-sci/maths-sci/threshold-networks/>

Scientific Organisers  
Yi Ming Lai, R&uuml;diger Thul, and Stephen Coombes, University of Nottingham  
Mason A. Porter, UCLA  

Enquiries should be sent to: <ThresholdNetworks2019@nottingham.ac.uk>