---
title:  2019 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School on High Performance Data Analytics
page: https://project.inria.fr/siamsummerschool/
start_date: 2019-06-17 12:00:00
end_date: 2019-06-28 12:00:00
where: Aussois, French Alps
---


2019 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School on High Performance Data Analytics

####About the program

The 10th Gene Golub SIAM Summer School will take place in France, at a conference center in Aussois, in the French Alps from June, 17 to June, 28, 2019 and will be held in conjunction with the SIAM Activity Group on Supercomputing. The intended audience is intermediate graduate students (students with a Master's degree, Ph.D. students, or equivalent). 

The focus of the school will be on large-scale data analytics, which lies at the intersection of data analytics algorithms and high performance computing. Students will be introduced to problems in data analytics arising from both the machine learning and the scientific computing communities. The school will include perspectives from industry, such as Hodge Star Scientific Computing, IBM, and NVIDIA, as well as from academic instructors, including

- Animashree Anandkumar (Caltech and Nvidia)  
- Haesun Park (Georgia Institute of Technology)  
- Tammy Kolda (Sandia National Laboratories)  
- Jack Poulson (Hodge Star Scientific Computing)  
- Costas Bekas (IBM)  

All courses will have a strong computing component. The school will be held in the spirit of Gene Golub, with lots of interactions between the lecturers and the participants.  A poster blitz and a poster session will be organized for students who wish to present their own work. The lectures will have associated labs that will allow the students to get hands-on experience and have a closer interaction with the lecturers. The school is being organized by Laura Grigori (Inria and Sorbonne University), Matthew Knepley (University at Buffalo), Olaf Schenk (Università della Svizzera italiana), and Rich Vuduc (Georgia Institute of Technology).

####Application

We invite graduate students from disciplines related to the topic of the school (mathematical sciences, computing sciences, or a domain science with a computational science and engineering focus), to apply. Our mission is to increase diversity and we encourage students from under-represented groups to apply.  Attendance will be restricted to about 40 well-qualified participants, who will be selected based on the submitted application documents. In order to apply, please send the following documents, all written in English and combined into a single PDF file to <g2s3@siam.org> : 

- A cover letter describing your experience and motivation to take part in G2S3 2019 (2 pages max.)  
- A short CV (2 pages max.)  
- A transcript containing relevant classes you attended (only course titles and grades)  

The applicants should provide specific forms of evidence in their materials of the following:

- Prior relevant research in any of the topic areas of the summer school OR in related areas,  
- their interest in learning about multiple topic areas (e.g., a student from computational statistics has applications that require scaling to large-scale parallel computers),  
- description of collaborative or interdisciplinary projects or work,  
- a description of software and programming background.  

Please use the following email subject: [G2S3 Application]: last name, first name.

In addition, one letter of recommendation from your advisor should be sent separately to <g2s3@siam.org> using the email subject [G2S3 Reference]: last name, first name. 

####Applying for Financial Support

The generous sponsorship from SIAM makes it possible that all selected participants will have their lodging and meals covered by the school. In addition, we will (at least partially) reimburse reasonable travel costs upon application. If you require travel support, then please submit a brief statement indicating the expected amount with your application. A request of funding will not influence the decision on admission to the school.

Applications are being accepted now through February 8, 2019. More information is available on the G2S3 2019 website (<https://project.inria.fr/siamsummerschool/>).
