---
title: "HMI Workshop -- Beyond the discrete: iterative methods from the continuum perspective"
page: https://www.maths.tcd.ie/~ksoodha/beyonddiscrete2019/
start_date: 2019-06-03 12:00:00
end_date: 2019-06-07 12:00:00
where: Trinity College, Dublin
---

The Hamilton Mathematics Institute (HMI) at Trinity College Dublin will be hosting a workshop next summer titled "Beyond the discrete: iterative methods from the continuum perspective". Its purpose is to advance a more full view of iterative methods, which connects the measure of convergence in finite dimensions to the underlying continuum problem and the discretization that induced the finite dimensional linear system in question.  We seek to introduce these ideas to younger researchers in the early stages of their careers while bringing together current leaders in the field to have fruitful discussions and share their latest research. This workshop will combine introductory lectures on interrelated subtopics and hosting and encouraging interesting discussions.  There will also be a poster session wherein younger researchers can present their work.

The workshop has five invited speakers confirmed: Victorita Dolean (University of Strathclyde/Nice), Maya Neytcheva (Uppsala University), Catherine Powell (University of Manchester), Zdenek Strako&#353; (Charles University Prague), and Walter Zulehner (Johannes Kepler University, Austria).

The Workshop will take place from the morning of June 3 to lunchtime of June 7, 2019 in the Hamilton Building of Trinity College Dublin in Ireland. More detailed information, including how to register, can be found at <https://www.maths.tcd.ie/~ksoodha/beyonddiscrete2019/>.  We encourage interested colleagues to register and book hotel reservations as soon as possible, as the demand for hotel rooms is exceedingly high during the summer months, particularly in June.

Important Deadlines:  
March 20, 2019: Registration with talk/poster abstract submission (for early career people)  
March 20, 2019: Registration with request for possible limited financial support (for early career people)  
May 20, 2019: General registration deadline  