---
title:  Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC19)
page: https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org
start_date: 2019-06-12 12:00:00
end_date: 2019-06-14 12:00:00
where: ETH Zurich, Switzerland
---



The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) invites research paper 
submissions for PASC19, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing 
Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC, which will be held at ETH Zurich, Switzerland, 
from June 12 to 14, 2019 (<https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org>).

PASC19 is the sixth edition of the PASC Conference series, an international 
platform for the exchange of competences in scientific computing and 
computational science, with a strong focus on methods, tools, algorithms, 
application challenges, and novel techniques and usage of high performance 
computing.

As in previous years, the technical program of PASC19 is organized around 
eight scientific domains:

* Chemistry and Materials  
* Climate and Weather  
* Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
* Emerging Application Domains (incl. but not limited to social sciences, 
finance, ...)   
* Engineering (incl. but not limited to CFD, computational mechanics, 
computational engineering materials, turbulent flow, ...)  
* Life Sciences (incl. but not limited to biophysics, genomics, 
bioinformatics, systems biology, neuroscience and computational biology, ...)  
* Physics (incl. but not limited to astrophysics, cosmology, plasma 
modelling, QCD, ...)  
* Solid Earth Dynamics  

PASC19 solicits high-quality contributions of original research related to 
scientific computing in all of these domains. Papers that engage with the 
theme of PASC19 - Exascale and Beyond - are particularly welcome, as are 
submissions that seek to define the state of the art in a particular 
application area.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

* Extreme scalable methods in computational science and engineering, such as 
algorithms and software for scalable multi-scale, multi-physics, and 
high-fidelity computational science and engineering problems.  
* Numerical methods, algorithms, or large-scale simulations in computational 
fluid dynamics, computational mechanics, computational engineering materials, 
turbulent flow, and compuational cosmology.  
* Effective use of advanced computing systems for large-scale scientific 
applications, including modern multi- and many-core CPUs and accelerators 
with deep memory hierarchies, and energy-efficient architectures.  
* Best practices and tools for productive and sustainable scientific and 
engineering software development.  
* The integration of large-scale experimental and observational scientific 
data and high-performance data analytics and computing.  
* Reproducibility for computational science and engineering.
* Verification, validation, and uncertainty quantification.  
* Domain specific languages; toolchains for source-to-source 
translation/adaption.  
* Runtime systems and middleware, such as task- and data-driven computation 
on heterogenous architectures.  
* Algorithms and strategies for effective use of machine learning, deep
learning or AI to accelerate computational science.  
* Unstructured vs structured meshes for computational science applications at 
exascale.  
* Numerical algorithm development for exascale computing, including, but not 
limited to, communication avoiding algorithms, use of reduced or mixed 
precision, and integration of scalable numerical libraries in application 
software.  

Papers accepted for PASC19 will be presented as talks, and published in the 
Proceedings of the PASC Conference, accessible via the ACM Digital Library. A 
selection of the highest quality papers may be given the opportunity of a 
plenary presentation. In selecting papers for plenary presentation, the
Papers Committee will place particular weight on impact, interdisciplinarity 
and interest to a broad audience.

The goal of the PASC Conference Papers Program is to advance the quality of 
scientific communication between the various disciplines of computational 
science and engineering in the context of high performance computing. The 
program was built from an observation that the computer science community 
traditionally publishes in the proceedings of major international 
conferences, while domain science communities publish primarily in 
disciplinary journals - and neither of which is read regularly by the other. 
The PASC Conference provides a unique venue that enables interdisciplinary 
exchange in a manner that bridges the two scientific publishing cultures.

SUBMISSION AND REVIEW 

The PASC19 Papers Program Committee 
(<https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org/about/papers-program-committee/>) is
responsible for the paper evaluation process. The committee is chaired by 
Sunita Chandrasekaran (University of Delaware) and &Uuml;mit V. &Ccedil;ataly&uuml;rek 
(Georgia Institute of Technology) and comprised of Domain Chairs who are 
specialists in their scientific fields. Papers will be evaluated on their 
significance, technical soundness, originality, and quality of communication.

We employ a rigorous academic peer-review process: most notably, we allow the 
possibility for provisional acceptance (revision and author rebuttal), and 
specialized reviewers are solicited for each submission (there is no 
pre-selected standing committee of reviewers). The paper selection process 
thus combines the strengths of conference and journal publication schemes to 
provide an effective, high-impact publication venue in large-scale 
computational science.

Contributions must be submitted through the PASC Conference online submission 
portal (<https://submissions.pasc-conference.org>). Submissions should include 
the following:

* Title: Maximum 20 words.  
* Scientific Domain: Select a primary and optionally secondary scientific 
domain(s).  
* Author details: Full names and contact details of author(s).  
* Short Abstract: Maximum 200 words.  
* Paper: Maximum 10 pages including figures, tables, and appendices.   

As submissions are evaluated double blind, authors should not be named in the 
paper itself (nor should their affiliations or funding bodies), and 
references to previous own work should be made in the third person. Papers 
must be submitted in the current ACM Article Template (sigconf proceedings) 
format [1].

ROLLING SUBMISSION DEADLINES

This year the PASC Conference introduces a novel rolling submission and
review process. There will be six submission deadlines every year, on the 
15th day of odd numbered months (i.e., January, March, May, July, September 
and November). The first of these deadlines is November 15, 2018. The next 
deadline (and final deadline for PASC19) will be January 15, 2019. From March 
15, 2019, submissions will be considered for PASC20. Deadlines are 11:59 pm 
anywhere on earth ('AoE' or 'UTC-12').

The submission system is open continuously throughout the year. Manuscripts 
will be assigned to reviewers at the date of the next submissions deadline; 
reviews will be returned to authors within 5 weeks with a decision of accept, 
reject or revision. Revisions will be due 4 weeks after notifications.

* 15 November 2018: First rolling deadline for new submissions  
* 15 January 2019: Second (and final) rolling deadline for new submissions  

CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION TERMS

Authors of papers that are accepted for PASC19 will be given 20-30 minute 
presentation slots at the conference, grouped in topically-focused parallel 
sessions. A selection of the highest quality papers may be given the 
opportunity of a plenary presentation. Papers that are presented at PASC19 
will be published in the Proceedings of the PASC Conference, accessible via 
the ACM Digital Library. Please note that speakers must register for the 
conference and are subject to the corresponding registration fee.

POST-CONFERENCE JOURNAL SUBMISSION

Following the conference, authors will have the opportunity to develop their 
papers, and, where appropriate, associated open-source software, for 
publication in a relevant, computationally focused, domain-specific journal. 
The journal paper should be an expanded version of the conference paper
(consistent with the ACM policy for major revisions [2]) presenting a more 
complete description of the work - a fuller introduction, deeper project 
description, additional results, etc. and may be accompanied by associated 
open-source software.

To facilitate post-conference journal publications, the PASC Conference has 
formed collaborative partnerships with a number of high-quality scientific 
journals, including Computer Physics Communications (CPC) [3], the Journal of 
Advances in Modeling Earth Systems (JAMES) [4], and ACM Transactions on
Mathematical Software (ACM TOMS) [5]. Members of the journals' editorial 
boards will work with the Scientific Committee in reviewing PASC papers and 
in identifying papers to be extended and submitted to partner journals.
Authors should communicate their interest in publishing with a partner 
journal during the submission process.

PAPERS PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRS    

General Chairs 
* &Uuml;mit V. &Ccedil;ataly&uuml;rek (Georgia Institute of Technology, US)  
* Sunita Chandrasekaran (University of Delaware, US)  

Chemistry and Materials  
* Edoardo Di Napoli (Forschungszentrum J&uuml;lich, Germany)  
* Zeila Zanolli (Institut Catal&agrave; de Nanoci&eacute;ncia i Nanotecnologia, Spain)  

Climate and Weather  
* Katherine Evans (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)  
* Nils Wedi (ECMWF, UK)  

Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
* Michael Heroux (Sandia National Laboratories, US)  
* Kathryn Mohror (Livermore National Laboratory, US)  

Emerging Application Domains  
* Steve Aplin (Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, Germany)  
* Michael Bussmann (Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Germany)  

Engineering  
* Richard Sandberg (The University of Melbourne, Australia)  
* Philipp Schlatter (KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden)  

Life Sciences   
* Dan Jacobson (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)   
* Eilif Muller (EPFL, Switzerland)   

Physics  
* Stan Scott (Queen's University Belfast, UK)  
* Lucio Mayer (University of Zurich, Switzerland)  

Solid Earth Dynamics   
* Felix Herrmann (Georgia Institute of Technology, US) 
* Gerard Gorman (Imperial College London, UK)



If you have any questions regarding the submission or reviewing process
please email <info@pasc-conference.org>. 

Notes:

1. www.acm.org/publications/article-templates/proceedings-template.html
2. To distinguish between a new derivative work and a minor revision, ACM 
uses, respectively, a rule of greater than or less than 25 percent changed
3. www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications
4. agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1942-2466/
5. toms.acm.org
