---
title: Faculty Positions in Data Science at WSU
page: https://www.wsujobs.com/postings/15346
posted: 2014-11-25 12:00:00
closes: 2015-01-15 12:00:00
---

Washington State University  
Assistant and Associate Professor Positions, Computer Science  

The School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) at Washington
State University (WSU) in Pullman, WA is significantly expanding its computer
science faculty with more than ten new positions. In order to build a
world-class research program in data science, we hired two new faculty in the
area during the past academic year. We now invite applications for five
additional permanent full-time tenure-track faculty positions with a research
emphasis in data science. In this search, we seek to hire three faculty members
at the rank of assistant or associate professor. Ideal candidates will have
earned a Ph.D. in a reputable program in computer science or a related field,
already have published promising work, and demonstrate a strong commitment to
building a world-class research program in data science. Successful candidates
will also have strong leadership potential, exceptional communication and
interpersonal skills, a commitment to teaching excellence at both the
undergraduate and graduate levels, and a commitment to diversifying the student
body.  Candidates for the associate position will have established 5 years
experience.

In addition, we are particularly interested in building interdisciplinary
collaboration with colleagues from across the WSU system in the university's
strategic priorities in Global Animal Health, Agriculture, Clean Technology,
and Renewable Bioenergy.  Furthermore, the university's pursuit of a medical
school on the Health Sciences campus in Spokane provides EECS faculty and
students with excellent interdisciplinary and collaborative research and
educational opportunities. Therefore, candidates with interdisciplinary
expertise in the above strategic areas will be given priority consideration.

The job duties of successful candidates include teaching undergraduate and
graduate courses in computer science;  participating in the continuous teaching
assessment activities of the School of EECS; effectively communicating and
interacting with students; collaborating with others within the School, the
University, or other organizations;  conducting funded research; publishing in
top-tier venues; and advising M.S. and Ph.D. student research programs.

New faculty hired for these positions will join 36 existing tenure track
faculty members in the School of EECS, which has experienced rapid growth in
enrollment over the past three years. As of the fall of 2014, 900 undergraduate
and 160 graduate students are enrolled in its B.S., B.A., M.S., and Ph.D.
programs in computer science, electrical engineering, and computer engineering.

Washington State University is one of the nation's top 60 public research
universities according to U.S. News and World Report. WSU is among 96 public
and private universities in America recognized with the "very high research
activity" categorization, and among 119 national universities and colleges to
earn the "community engagement" classification from the Carnegie Foundation.
With a population of 31,000, Pullman is a quintessential college town -- one of
the top 10 in the nation according to MSN's 2012 report on the "Best College
Towns in North America." Recognized by Bloomberg Businessweek as the "Best
Place to Raise Kids" in Washington State, Pullman consistently boasts one of
the top school districts in the state. Situated to the east of the Cascade
Mountains, Pullman enjoys a dry four-season climate (21 inches of annual
precipitation), with sunny, warm summers, relatively mild winters, and
excellent access to outdoor recreational opportunities. 

For more information about WSU and the School of EECS, visit our home page at
<http://www.eecs.wsu.edu>.

Applications should include a cover letter indicating the position sought, and
summarizing qualifications. Applications should also include research and
teaching statements, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for three
references. To apply, visit <https://www.wsujobs.com/postings/15346>.
Application review begins January 15, 2015. It is anticipated that successful
candidates will begin their appointments on August 16, 2015. 

WSU is committed to excellence through diversity, has faculty friendly policies
including a partner accommodation program, on-site childcare availability, and
a NSF ADVANCE Institutional Transformation grant to increase the advancement of
women faculty in science, engineering and math (see <http://www.excelinse.wsu.edu>).
These open positions are part of WSU's priority to build a diverse faculty and,
as such, female and minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply. WSU
is an EEO/AA/ADA educator and employer.
