---
title: Postdoctoral Position, University of Kansas
page: http://employment.ku.edu/staff/2221BR
posted: 2014-11-19 12:00:00
closes: 2014-12-15 12:00:00
---

Applications are invited for a full-time postdoctoral position with the
Information and Telecommunication Technology Center (ITTC) at the University of
Kansas. The initial appointment will begin in February 2015. The postdoc will
join a project developing parallel dynamic meshing algorithms and software for
computational simulations involving simulation-assisted medical interventions.

This position requires a PhD degree in computer science, applied or
computational mathematics, mechanical engineering, or a related field, in a
scientific computing area and research experience in unstructured meshing
algorithms and high performance computing.  Minimum 2 years' experience with
C/C++ and a parallel programing language and strong written and oral
communication skills are also required. The postdoc researcher will work
closely with a team of academics, Ph.D. students, and undergraduate researchers
from computer science, biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, and
medicine.  Knowledge of MPI programming and bioengineering applications and
interdisciplinary research experience are a plus. 

A full position description, required and preferred qualifications, and
application instructions can be found at
<http://employment.ku.edu/staff/2221BR>.  For more information on ITTC see
<http://www.ittc.ku.edu>.  Review of applications begins 12/15/14, and will
continue until the position is filled.

Complete applications will include the following:

1.    A cover letter
2.    A full curriculum vitae
3.    A two- to three-page statement summarizing your research experience and achievements (including publications and software) and research plans
4.    Up to two research publications and/or preprints
5.   The names and contact information for three references

For further information about this position, please contact Prof. Suzanne
Shontz at `shontz@ku.edu`.

KU is an EO/AAE.  All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy),
age, national origin, disability, genetic information or protected Veteran
status.
