---
title: Fryrear Ph.D. Fellowship in Computational Science at Colorado School of Mines
page: http://inside.mines.edu/~pconstan/fryrear.html
posted: 2014-11-21 12:00:00
closes: 2015-02-01 12:00:00
---

The Colorado School of Mines Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics is pleased to offer the Ben L. Fryrear Ph.D. Fellowship in Computational Science. The fellowship includes up to four years of full tuition, benefits, $33k yearly stipend, and a budget for conference travel.  The first six semesters will consist of research activities with Dr. Paul G. Constantine, the Ben L. Fryrear Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics and Statistics. Research areas of interest include but are not limited to:

- uncertainty quantification
- dimension reduction and reduced-order modeling
- algorithms for high-performance computing
- computational methods for differential equations
- data analysis and visualization 

For the final two semesters, the Fryrear Fellow will be the instructor of record for an undergraduate mathematics class. 

Applicants must meet all requirements for admission to the graduate program in computational and applied mathematics. Preference will be given to applicants with a strong background in computational science. To apply, follow the standard procedure for applying to graduate school at CSM; the deadline is February 1, 2015. Directions can be found at <http://www.mines.edu/graduate_admissions>

Additionally, applicants should send a curriculum vitae and a two-page personal statement addressing research interests and qualifications to fryrear.fellowship@mines.edu by February 1, 2015. Early submission of these documents is strongly encouraged. For more information about the Fryrear Fellowship, go to <http://inside.mines.edu/~pconstan/fryrear.html>

About CSM:  
Founded in 1874, CSM is a public research university devoted to engineering and applied science. It has distinguished itself by developing a curriculum and research program geared towards responsible stewardship of the earth and its resources. In addition to strong education and research programs in traditional fields of science and engineering, Mines is one of a very few institutions in the world having broad expertise in resource exploration, extraction, production and utilization. As such, Mines occupies a unique position among the world's institutions of higher education. Mines offers all the advantages of a world-class research institution with a size that allows for personal attention. 

CSM is located in Golden, Colorado at the foothills of the Rocky Mountain front range---a short drive to Denver, Boulder, and some of the world's best ski resorts and national parks. 
