---
title: Machine learning and time series analysis internship
posted: 2014-10-10 12:00:00
closes: 2014-12-10 12:00:00
---

Data Analytics and Algorithms groups are looking for an intern to 
work on spectral clustering for time series analysis and related 
research. An ideal candidate would be a senior Ph.D. student from a 
well-recognized institution, who has taken graduate Functional Analysis 
and Machine Learning classes, has practical experience coding and 
running parallel jobs on a cloud, and with demonstrated excellent 
English technical writing skills. The candidate is expected to 
collaborate with MERL researchers in developing systems, code writing, 
conducting experiments and simulations, and preparing manuscripts for 
publication and patent applications. The duration of the internship is 
expected to be 3 to 6 months, available immediately and for 2015. Please 
include position ID in the subject of the e-mail.

Qualified applicants for MERL internships are individuals who have 
or can obtain full authorization to work in the U.S. and do not require 
export licenses to receive information about the projects they will be 
exposed to at MERL. The U.S. government prohibits the release of 
information without an export license to citizens of several countries, 
including, without limitation, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria 
(Country Group E:1 of Part 740, Supplement 1, of the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations). Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, 
Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

   Research Area: Data Analytics  
   Position ID: DA816  
   Contact: Daniel Nikovski  
   Email: nikovski[at]merl[dot]com  
