---
title: Wilkinson Fellowship in Scientific Computing
page: http://www.mcs.anl.gov/career-opportunities/wilkinson-fellowship-scientific-computing
posted: 2015-09-23 12:00:00
closes: 2015-10-07 12:00:00
---

The Mathematics and Computer Science (MCS) Division of Argonne National 
Laboratory invites outstanding candidates to apply for the J. H. 
Wilkinson Fellowship in Scientific Computing. The appointment is for one 
year and may be renewed for another year.

This fellowship was created in memory of James Hardy Wilkinson, F.R.S., 
who had a close association with the Mathematics and Computer Science 
Division as a consultant and guiding spirit for the EISPACK and LINPACK 
projects. The Wilkinson Fellowship is intended to encourage scientists 
actively engaged in state-of-the-art research in scientific computing. 
Candidates must have received a recent Ph.D. prior to the beginning of 
the appointment. The benefits of the appointment include a highly 
competitive salary, moving expenses, and a generous professional travel 
allowance. For additional details, including past recipients, see 
http://www.mcs.anl.gov/career-opportunities/wilkinson-fellowship-scientific-computing

The appointment will be in the MCS Division, which has strong programs 
in scientific computing, software tools, and computational mathematics. 
Of special interest are algorithms and software for linear algebra, 
optimization, differential equations, computational differentiation, 
uncertainty quantification, stochastic systems, and unstructured mesh 
computations; software tools for parallel computing; and numerical 
methods for computational science problems and the analysis of big data. 
For further information, see <http://www.mcs.anl.gov/LANS/> .

Internationally recognized for innovative research in high-performance 
computing, the MCS Division supports an excellent computational 
environment that includes large Linux clusters, a distributed systems 
laboratory, and a virtual environments laboratory. Researchers also have 
access to a Blue Gene/Q supercomputer. For more information, see 
<http://www.mcs.anl.gov> .

Argonne is located in the southwestern Chicago suburbs, offering the 
advantages of affordable housing, good schools, and easy access to the 
cultural attractions of the city.

Interested candidates should consult the website 
<http://www.mcs.anl.gov/career-opportunities/wilkinson-fellowship-scientific-computing>
for details on how to apply. The application must include a curriculum 
vitae; statement of research interests; a list of publications, 
abstracts, and significant presentations; and three letters of 
recommendation. Applications will be accepted starting September 15, 
2015. The closing date for applications is December 4, 2015. A selection 
committee will review application material and a candidate announced in 
February 2016.

Interested candidates can also apply for an Argonne Named Postdoc
position. Please contact `wilkinson@mcs.anl.gov` by October 7, 2015 if
you are interested in this opportunity.
