---
title: Open PhD Position, Computational Science, ETH Zurich
page: http://people.inf.ethz.ch/arbenz/#projects
posted: 2015-02-20 12:00:00
closes: 2015-04-20 12:00:00
---

PhD position in the Parallel and High Performance Computing research 
group of the Computer Science Department at ETH Zurich on the topic of

Large scale shape optimization for accelerator cavities

The design of Radio Frequency (RF) cavity structures is a complex 
optimization process.  RF cavity structures are elements in which 
charged particles are accelerated by an oscillating electric field which 
is generated by exciting the proper eigenmode of the accelerator cavity. 
 The eigenmodes as well as their frequencies are determined by the 
shape of the cavity.

The proposed work consists in developing a highly parallel tool for the 
optimization of the shape of the accelerating cavity structures and of 
the beam dynamics, based on multi-objective PDE constrained optimization 
and uncertainty quantification.

Building blocks are available: a Jacobi-Davidson eigensolver, a general 
particle tracker, and a flexible multi-objective optimization framework. 
 We propose to combine these into a unique framework to optimize the 
shape of accelerator cavities, and as well optimize the most important 
beam dynamics parameters, leading to an optimal accelerator design in 
the least amount of time.  For each of the many possible designs, the 
optimizer will request the computation of the accelerating eigenmodes 
and the tracking of particles traveling through the accelerator. 
Uncertainties originating from the models or from the manufacturing 
processes may have to be taken into account.

The proposed research will be in close collaboration with the Paul 
Scherrer Institute (PSI).  It will be applied immediately to the 
existing accelerators at PSI, and to the planned novel accelerators and 
accelerator concepts.

Profile and requirements:

- Master in Computational Science and Engineering, Applied Mathematics, 
  Physics, Computer Science or similar, with excellent study results.
- Strong background in computational mathematics or computational 
  physics and some proven track record in implementing numerical 
  algorithms on HPC hardware.
- Fluent in English; willingness to work on an interdisciplinary project.

For more information see <http://people.inf.ethz.ch/arbenz/#projects>

Applicants are invited to send a motivation letter, detailed CV 
(including courses, grades, publications) and contact info of at least 
two references (including email addresses and phone numbers) to Prof. 
Dr. Peter Arbenz (<arbenz@inf.ethz.ch>).

