---
title: Postdoctoral position, Memorial University of Newfoundland
posted: 2015-03-20 12:00:00
closes: 2015-05-20 12:00:00
---

Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research position in the Memorial
University of Newfoundland Centre for Numerical Analysis and Scientific
Computing, within the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the Memorial
University of Newfoundland. The successful candidate will work under the
supervision of Dr. Scott MacLachlan, with a research focus on novel
preconditioning strategies for multiphysics problems. Duties will include
design and analysis of multigrid and/or domain-decomposition algorithms, as
well as their implementation in a high-performance computing environment. A
desired, but flexible, start date of September 1, 2015 is expected.

The initial position will be for one year, with possibility of renewal subject
to funding and performance. Opportunities for teaching may be available, if
desired by the successful candidate. The minimum annual salary is $40K, but
will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. A PhD and relevant
expertise in applied mathematics or scientific computing is expected, with a
preference for experience in computational PDEs and/or numerical linear
algebra. Previous interdisciplinary project experience, particularly in areas
of the geosciences, is a plus. Interested applicants should send a cover
letter, detailed CV, and names and email addresses of three references directly
to Dr. MacLachlan (<smaclachlan@mun.ca>). Review of applications will begin on
April 15, 2015, and continue until the position is filled.

Memorial University is one of the two largest universities in Atlantic Canada.
As the province's only university, Memorial plays an integral role in the
educational and cultural life of Newfoundland and Labrador. Offering diverse
undergraduate and graduate programs to almost 18,000 students, Memorial
provides a distinctive and stimulating environment for learning in St. John's,
a very safe, friendly city with great historic charm, a vibrant cultural life,
and easy access to a wide range of outdoor activities.

Memorial University is committed to employment equity and encourages
applications from qualified women and men, visible minorities, aboriginal
people and persons with disabilities. All qualified candidates are encouraged
to apply; however Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given
priority. Partners of candidates for positions are invited to include their
resume for possible matching with other job opportunities.

