---
title: Sidney Fernbach Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Computing Sciences
page: http://computation.llnl.gov/fernbach
posted: 2015-08-14 12:00:00
closes: 2015-10-18 12:00:00
---

The Computation Directorate at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
(LLNL) is soliciting applications for the Sidney Fernbach Postdoctoral
Fellowship in the Computing Sciences.  This fellowship will be awarded
to one outstanding candidate with exceptional talent, scientific track
record, and potential for significant achievements in computational
mathematics, scientific computing, or computer science.  The
fellowship is named after Sidney Fernbach, former Director of the
Computation Department at LLNL and one of the pioneers in high
performance scientific computing. The fellow will have the freedom to
pursue their own research agenda under the guidance of an LLNL staff
scientist who serves as a mentor.  The appointment will be for one
year renewable for a second year.
 
Successful candidates will work in a cutting-edge, interdisciplinary
research environment with accomplished researchers and will also have
access to Livermore Computing's world-class HPC environment.  Fellows
will receive a highly competitive salary, moving expenses, and a
professional travel allowance.
 
LLNL is a premier research and development institution for science and
technology applied to national security that has been a leader in
scientific and high-performance computing for decades.  The
Computation Directorate in the laboratory conducts world-class,
collaborative scientific research and development in high performance
computing, computational physics, numerical mathematics, computer
science, and data science.  Major research thrust areas include
scalable algorithms and software for linear and nonlinear solvers,
partial differential equations, adaptive mesh refinement, verification
and uncertainty quantification, large-scale data analysis, scientific
visualization, performance tools, programming models, and compiler
analysis.
 
Interested applicants can find more information about eligibility,
benefits, and the application process on the Fernbach Fellowship web
page (<http://computation.llnl.gov/fernbach>).  Deadline for application
is October 18, 2015.
 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is managed by Lawrence
Livermore National Security, LLC. for the National Nuclear Security
Administration within the Department of Energy.  We are an equal
opportunity employer with a commitment to workforce diversity.
