---
title: Postdoctoral positions at RAL
page: http://www.topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc199753_5572.aspx
posted: 2015-07-31 12:00:00
closes: 2015-08-31 12:00:00
---

Postdoctoral Positions in Numerical Linear Algebra on Extreme-scale Computers at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory

We are inviting applications for two postdoctoral positions in the
Numerical Analysis Group at STFC-RAL in Oxfordshire, UK.

The successful candidates will join the Numerical Linear Algebra for
Future and Emerging Technologies (NLAFET) project funded by the
European Commission involving Inria, Umea University, University of
Manchester and STFC-RAL.  The positions will focus on design,
implementation, and evaluation of parallel algorithms for numerical
linear algebra with regards to extreme-scale challenges.  The research
at RAL will principally be on sparse direct solvers that are highly
scalable and thus suitable for future and emerging large scale
computers.  The algorithms developed will be validated on several
applications targeted by NLAFET, such as power systems, computational
fluid dynamics, and astrophysics.  The research will be done in close
collaboration with established researchers in the Numerical Analysis
Group as well as with other partners in NLAFET.

Candidates should have a PhD in applied mathematics or computer
science and expertise in numerical linear algebra and/or high
performance computing.

This post offers a full-time 36-month research appointment.

Informal enquiries may be made to: Iain Duff (`iain.duff@stfc.ac.uk`).

To apply, please go to the STFC recruitment portal at
<http://www.topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc199753_5572.aspx>.

The deadline for applications is 31st August 2015 and interview for
short-listed candidates will be held on 25th September 2015.  The
appointment can begin on 1 November 2015 or at a mutually agreed date
later in the year.
