---
title: Postdoctoral Position
page: http://employment.ku.edu/staff/2765BR
posted: 2015-02-19 12:00:00
closes: 2015-03-25 12:00:00
---

Applications are invited for a full-time postdoctoral position with
the Information and Telecommunication Technology Center (ITTC) at the
University of Kansas.  The initial appointment will begin in May 2015.
The postdoc will join a project developing parallel dynamic meshing
algorithms and software for simulation-assisted medical interventions
and will be supervised by Dr. Suzanne Shontz.  This research is partly
in collaboration with researchers at The Pennsylvania State University
and Penn State Hershey Medical Center.
 
This position requires a PhD degree in computer science, applied or
computational mathematics, mechanical engineering, or a related
discipline, in a scientific computing area, strong background and
research experience in one or more of the following areas:
unstructured mesh algorithms, numerical optimization algorithms, or
high performance computing; excellent programming skills in C, C++, or
Fortran, and strong written and oral communication skills.  Knowledge
of unstructured mesh algorithms, numerical optimization algorithms,
high performance computing, MPI programming, and bioengineering
applications and interdisciplinary research experience are a plus.
The postdoc researcher will work closely with a team of academics,
Ph.D. students, and undergraduate researchers from computer science,
biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, and medicine.
Experience communicating technical ideas with researchers in other
areas is also a plus.
 
A full position description, required and preferred qualifications,
and application instructions will be posted at
<http://employment.ku.edu/staff/2765BR>. For more information on the
project, see
<http://people.eecs.ku.edu/~shontz/nsf_career_project.html>.  More
information on Dr. Shontz's research group and the ITTC can be found
at <http://people.eecs.ku.edu/~shontz/> and <http://www.ittc.ku.edu>,
respectively.  Review of applications begins 3/25/15, and will
continue until the position is filled.
 
Complete applications will include the following:
 
1.  A cover letter
2.  A full curriculum vitae
3.  A two-to three-page statement summarizing your research experience
    and achievements (including publications and software) and future
    research plans
4.  Up to two research publications and/or preprints
5.  The names and addresses (including phone number and emails) of three
references
 
For further information about this position, please contact Prof. Suzanne M.
Shontz at <shontz@ku.edu>
 
KU is an EO/AAE.  All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy),
age, national origin, disability, genetic information or protected Veteran
status.
