---
title: "Postdoc and PhD positions in Parallel Computing for Extreme-Scale Systems"
page: 
posted: 2016-02-24 10:24:47
closes: 2016-04-04 12:00:00
---

Department of Computing Science at Umea University, Sweden invites 
excellent candidates to apply for postdoctoral and PhD positions. The 
successful candidate(s) will join NLAFET (Parallel Numerical Linear 
Algebra for Future Extreme-Scale Systems), which is one of the 
high-profile extreme-scale computing projects funded by the European 
Commission within the recent FET-HPC call under Horizon 2020. NLAFET is 
coordinated by Umea University with international partners from INRIA 
(France), University of Manchester and STFC-RAL (UK).

Future extreme-scale supercomputers will be heterogeneous and lead to 
new and challenging demands for efficient numerical algorithms and 
parallel software libraries. The aim of NLAFET is to tackle these 
challenges and ultimately deliver new scalable numerical libraries for 
fundamental problems in numerical linear algebra, including the solution 
of dense and sparse systems of equations and eigenvalue problems. 
Achieving this requires a co-design effort including developing novel 
algorithms, exploration of advanced scheduling strategies and runtime 
systems, offline and online autotuning, as well as avoiding 
communication and synchronization bottlenecks.

The positions will focus on design, implementation, and evaluation of 
parallel algorithms for matrix kernels and eigenvalue problems with 
regards to the extreme-scale challenges. The research will be done in 
close collaboration with recognized researchers and PhD students in the 
research group as well as with other partners in NLAFET.

For complete information of the positions see (dead-line for 
applications is April 4, 2016):
Postdoc-English:
<https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:93318/>
PhD-English:
<https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:93348/ >
