---
title: "Senior Numerical Analyst, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK"
page: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AVB324/senior-numerical-analysis-researcher/
posted: 2016-11-10 13:38:02
closes: 2017-01-08 12:00:00
---
We have an opening for a senior researcher to join the Numerical
Analysis Group at the STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, near Oxford,
England. The Group's main focus is on topics relating to large-scale
numerical linear algebra and optimization.

The position will involve leading novel independent and
collaborative scientific research at an international level in an area
of computational numerical analysis that complements and contributes to
the work of the Group.  You will be expected to be responsible for
more junior team members. The role will also
contribute to developing, supporting and maintaining software within one
or more of the Group's key software projects (notably HSL, SPRAL and
GALAHAD).

Further responsibilities will include developing new national and
international research collaborations, working with colleagues on the
development and expansion of projects involving STFC scientific
facilities (notably the ISIS pulsed neutron and muon source, Diamond
Light Source and RAL Space).

For further details, please visit
<http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AVB324/senior-numerical-analysis-researcher/>
or contact us (<nick.gould@stfc.ac.uk>,<jennifer.scott@stfc.ac.uk>) by
email for particular queries. The closing date for applications is 08
January 2017, with interviews scheduled on a date to be confirmed.
However, we encourage early applications as some candidates may be
interviewed before this date.