---
title: "Assistant Professor Position in Applied Mathematics at Columbia"
page: http://apam.columbia.edu/departmental-positions
posted: 2016-09-10 23:24:00
closes: 2016-11-10 23:59:00
---


The Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics (APAM) at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for a limited term Assistant Professor faculty position in the area of applied and computational mathematics. The position begins July 1, 2017 for a term of 2 years. Salary is competitive and teaching is relatively light. Basic responsibilities focus on teaching, research and service. A recent PhD and extraordinary promise in research are required. A broad array of research groups is active in the department, with current research encompassing applied and computational mathematics, and their application to many areas of biology, data and image processing, earth and environmental sciences, materials, and physics. There is a strong cohort of activities on applied and computational mathematics within the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the affiliated Institute of Data Science and Engineering. The Applied Mathematics program also has extensive collaborations with the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the Goddard Institute for Space Science. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community.

Applicants should apply on-line at the following URL:  

academicjobs.columbia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=63091

They should submit electronically the following: a current vita including a list of publications, a one-page research statement with a brief description of their current research work and future research interests, and two letters of recommendation. The search will close no sooner than November 1, 2016 and will remain open until the position is filled. Applicants can consult

http://www.apam.columbia.edu  

for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.  