---
title: "Faculty positions, Indian Institute of Science (IISc)"
page: http://cds.iisc.in/opportunities/faculty/
posted: 2016-02-29 08:00:02
closes: 2016-04-30 12:00:00
---
The Department of Computational and Data Sciences (CDS), Indian
Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, India is inviting applications
for full-time tenure track faculty positions at all levels (Assistant
Professor, Associate Professor and Professor).

CDS is an interdisciplinary engineering department spanning the
research areas of Computational Science and Engineering, and Data
Sciences.  Computational science deals with computational methods,
related mathematics and algorithms, and the design of high performance
and scalable systems to support scientific and engineering
applications. Data Science explores models, algorithms and scalable
systems to extract knowledge and insight from both structured and
unstructured data of various scales. CDS invites applications in all
areas of computational and data sciences that lie at the intersection
of methods, systems and applications, specifically in the following
topics.

- Computational Mathematics and its Application to Science and
Engineering - All areas, especially in emerging areas and in areas
that complement the specialization of the current faculty
- Data science and its Applications?All areas including analytics,
assimilation, visualization, knowledge extraction and representation,
statistics at scale, programming models and platforms.
- Scalable Systems for Computation and Data Sciences - emerging hardware
architectures  and software systems

CDS welcomes rolling applications, round-the-year, from Indian
nationals who are exceptionally motivated, with an established record
of independent, high quality research, and a commitment to teaching.
The department expects the candidates to have published in top-ranking
fora in their areas of expertise. For an Assistant Professor position,
the prospective candidates must have a PhD with at least 3 years of
post-doctoral research experience (relaxable in exceptional cases) and
be preferably below 35 years of age. Applicants for senior positions,
in addition to a PhD degree, must be leaders with outstanding
contributions in their area of research and a proven track-record of
advising doctoral students.

Women candidates and applicants belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes are especially encouraged to apply.

## Why CDS?

The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is the premier graduate
teaching and research institution in India, and is highly ranked on
global metrics. Established over a century ago and located in the
vibrant technology capital of Bangalore, IISc is renowned for its
academic freedom. Its focus on research excellence, quality of
students and faculty, and leadership in national and international
initiatives, are widely recognized. At a broad level, it operates in a
very similar manner to the premier international research schools,
with both faculty hiring and promotions based on rigorous assessment
from leading international experts in the area. Similarly, student
selection is based on highly-competitive examinations (such as GATE)
and detailed technical interviews.

CDS fully internalizes this creative academic ambience, and enriches
it with a variety of unique facets. Interdisciplinary and
collaborative research is strongly encouraged and supported, as is
reflected in the current CDS faculty profiles. A variety of labs are
operational, and new faculty are encouraged to start labs in their
focus areas. CDS provides adequate lab space for meeting the need of
individual faculty requirements. Also, exceptional computational
infrastructure available at the Institute?s supercomputing centre
(SERC), featuring the top-of-the-line hardware and software, allows
for cutting-edge research in high-performance computing. Finally, the
department is hosted in an aesthetically-pleasing spacious building
with all modern amenities including ubiquitous wireless connectivity.

In a nutshell, CDS provides an environment in which committed researchers 
routinely turn their academic dreams into reality. Several national-level 
initiatives have been seeded and grown here. Further, for many top international 
research conferences and journals, publications from CDS represent the very first time 
that research from India has been featured in those fora.

## How to apply

Interested candidates may apply by email to the Faculty Recruitment Committee of CDS 
(frc-chair@cds.iisc.ac.in) 
with the following information, preferably in a single PDF file:

- A complete resume, including names and contact information for at least three 
references who are leading experts 
in the area and familiar with the candidate's technical contributions. 
(In the resume, please separate the publications 
into refereed journal papers, refereed conference papers, book chapters and invited articles; 
and include, for the conference papers, where available, the number of submissions 
to the conference and the number accepted.)
- A two-page summary of the prior/significant research contributions
- A two-page summary of the future research plans
- A one-page summary of the teaching plans, specifically mentioning how it would fit in with 
the Computational Science MTech program run by CDS.
- Copies of the top three publications.

Note to candidates who are currently abroad: Please send your application package at 
least two months prior to your next India visit.

## Additional information

Additional information: <http://cds.iisc.in/opportunities/faculty/><br>
Department web page: <http://cds.iisc.in><br>
Institute web page: <http://www.iisc.in><br>