---
title: "Faculty Positions, Mathematics & Statistics, Texas Tech University, Fall 2017"
page:   http://www.texastech.edu/careers/
posted: 2016-10-05 04:26:00
closes: 2017-01-15 23:59:00
---

The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech University invites applications for six tenure-track positions beginning Fall 2017. While preference will be given to junior faculty candidates for the rank of assistant professor, candidates with very strong records of research productivity who will bring externally sponsored research to Texas Tech will be considered for associate or full professor ranks. The department seeks candidates who will be engaged in nationally visible scholarship, establish externally-funded research programs, interact with the existing research groups, participate in interdisciplinary collaborations and service, involve graduate students in their research, and show excellence in teaching at the graduate and undergraduate levels. A Ph.D. degree in mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, or a related area, at the time of appointment, is required. A demonstrated record of peer reviewed publication is expected. Senior applicants are expected to provide a strong record of scholarly research, teaching effectiveness, and professional service.

Candidates should apply at <http://www.texastech.edu/careers/> using the appropriate requisition number, as follows: 1). Mathematical sciences - requisition \#7946BR; 2). Computational mathematics - requisition \#7947BR; 3). Biomathematics - requisition \#7948BR; 4). Statistics - requisition \#7949BR.

The research fields of traditional interest in the department corresponding to these four areas include, respectively: i). algebraic and differential geometry and topology, complex analysis, number theory; ii). computational applications of partial differential equations, optimization, numerical linear algebra, numerical analysis, and scientific computing/software; iii). population dynamics, infectious diseases, ecotoxicology, immunology, oncology, biomechanics, neuroscience; iv). biostatistics, statistical genetics, stochastic processes, functional data analysis, Bayesian statistics, nonparametric statistics, and image analysis.

Applicants are expected to submit a letter of application along with a completed AMS standard cover sheet, current CV, research and teaching statements. In addition to the mandated online application, applicants must have three reference letters e-mailed to <misty.rangel@ttu.edu>. Review of applications will begin in Fall 2016. Applications will be accepted until the position is filled, with those received prior to January 15, 2017, assured full consideration.

As an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer, Texas Tech University is dedicated to the goal of building a culturally diverse faculty committed to teaching and working in a multicultural environment. We actively encourage applications from all those who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community at Texas Tech University. The university welcomes applications from minorities, women, veterans, persons with disabilities, and dual-career couples.
