---
title: "Faculty positions in Mathematics at the University of Otago"
page: https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=1600643
posted: 2016-04-13 09:32:00
closes: 2016-05-20 23:59:00
---


The department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Otago invites applications for two positions in Mathematics. The appointments are expected to be made at the Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level. The U.S. equivalent level of appointment is Assistant Professor (Lecturer) and Associate Professor (Senior Lecturer).  

We welcome applications from candidates with research expertise in any area of Mathematics. Research areas of current Mathematics staff include algebra, complex analysis, fractional calculus with applications, functional analysis, graph theory, mathematical biology, mathematical physics, operator algebra, polar-marine physics, ring theory and stochastic PDE. Our expectation is that one position will be offered in pure mathematics and the other in applied mathematics.  

Otago has consistently been among the top-ranked research universities in New Zealand, with Pure and Applied Mathematics research at Otago topping the most recent national ranking assessment. The University values research and research-informed teaching, and teaching assignments and loads are structured accordingly. The University is located in the vibrant southern city of Dunedin, which is a gateway to the beautiful Otago region of New Zealand. We encourage academics to establish and maintain international research connections, and we support this with generous research/sabbatical and conference leave.  

Candidates for this position should have a PhD in Mathematics or equivalent, a demonstrated commitment to ongoing mathematical research with a potential to develop a research program of international repute, and demonstrated success and/or aptitude in teaching Mathematics. The successful applicant will be capable of teaching the full range of our Mathematics courses at the undergraduate level, from first-year to Honours courses, and will supervise postgraduate research students.  

The position is full time and permanent subject to the satisfactory completion of the confirmation-path objectives for new appointees. The confirmation-path process is similar to the process of gaining tenure but is entirely internal with predetermined objectives.  

We welcome international candidates and provide financial assistance for relocation and visa applications. There is a wealth of practical information available for migrants considering a move to New Zealand and Dunedin.  

Specific enquiries about this position may be directed to the Head of Department Professor Robert Aldred.  

Applications quoting reference number 1600643 will close on Friday, 20 May 2016\.  


For contact details, applications forms, and further information, see  
<https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=1600643>
