---
title: "SAMSI Deputy Director position"
page:   http://www.samsi.info
posted: 2016-10-17 20:17:00
closes: 2016-12-17 23:59:00
---

The Statistical and Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI)  
invites applications for the position of Deputy Director for a term of 
up to three years beginning July 1, 2017.

SAMSI (<http://www.samsi.info/>) is one of eight mathematical sciences 
institutes funded by the National Science Foundation. The Deputy 
Director will be a distinguished researcher who will provide scientific
direction to the Institute and oversight of the SAMSI grant, and who 
will work closely with the Director on all aspects of the Institute's 
oversight and program activities.  The Deputy Director will also be 
strongly encouraged to pursue his/her personal research in conjunction 
with the SAMSI programs or independently.

SAMSI is managed by a Directorate which is comprised of five members: 
the Director, the Deputy Director, two part time Associate Directors and 
the Director of Operations.  The Director and Deputy Director form the 
executive side of the Directorate and are responsible for the 
administration of programs, human resources and personnel issues, 
financial operation and infrastructure.  Together with the other members 
of the Directorate, they also share the responsibilities of the 
selection, development and implementation of SAMSI programs.

The appointment will be made as a member of the research faculty at 
North Carolina State University. Rank and salary will be commensurate 
with the candidate’s experience and qualifications. The candidate must 
have a PhD in mathematics, statistics or a related data science field, 
excellent management skills and research record.  Proven administrative
experience is an asset.

Informal inquiries may be made to the Director, Richard Smith 
(<rls@samsi.info>, 919-685-9352).  Interested candidates should apply at 
<https://jobs.ncsu.edu>.   Review of applications will begin November 15,
2016, and will continue until the position is filled. Women and members
of underrepresented groups are especially encouraged to apply.


