---
title: " Postdoc in matrix computations & fault tolerance at Purdue University"
page:  https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/dgleich/matrix-postdoc-2017.html
posted: 2017-05-26 00:00:00
closes: 2017-07-26 23:59:00
---

We are looking for a full time postdoctoral researcher in the Computer
Science Department at Purdue to work on a new class of algorithms in 
numerical linear algebra that are robust to faults and failures in 
distributed systems and the next generation of exascale machines.

An ideal candidate will have expertise and experience in:  

 * matrix computations and sparse matrix computations, with some 
  background on the convergence theory of stationary algorithms or 
  Krylov methods    
* distributed and large scale implementations of matrix computations
  in engineering applications, such as linear system solvers, 
  eigenvalue computations, and advanced matrix-based data analytics 
  (e.g. PCA, clustering, etc.) 
   
We will consider exceptional candidates with experience in only one of
these areas who wish to develop expertise in the other area. 
The postdoctoral advisors are David Gleich & Ananth Grama.

Please send application materials to <matrix-postdoc-2017@cs.purdue.edu>

Materials should consist of:  

* A 1-2 paragraph introduction explaining why you want the position.   
* A standard CV with your publications highlighted.  
* Two to four people who could provide references.  
* (Optional, but encouraged) an annotated CV explaining your specific
contribution to 1-3 publications on your CV in 1-2 paragraphs each.   
Highlight the intellectual depth and engineering efforts in your work.  

Applications will be screened immediately upon receipt and will be 
accepted until the position has been filled. The starting
date for the postdoc is negotiable, but no later than Fall 2017.
This information can be easily shared through the web-page 
<https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/dgleich/matrix-postdoc-2017.html>


