---
title: "PhD Studentship: Novel Preconditioners for RBF Linear Systems"
page: 
posted: 2017-01-15 11:00:00
closes: 2017-04-16 12:00:00
---
Applications are invited for a fully funded 3 year PhD studentship in 
numerical linear algebra, under the supervision of Dr Jennifer Pestana
and Dr Alison Ramage, at the Department of Mathematics and Statistics 
at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland. 

This project aims to develop novel preconditioned iterative methods 
for linear systems arising in the numerical approximation of partial 
differential equations via radial basis functions (RBFs). These RBF 
methods are well suited to problems with complex geometries and/or 
scattered data, such as those occurring in biological and geophysical 
applications. However, the linear system that must be solved as part 
of the RBF method becomes increasingly challenging to work with as the 
approximation is refined. This project will extend previous work on 
preconditioning RBF systems to provide more efficient and robust solvers 
for these problems. 

The studentship covers UK/EU tuition fees and comes with an annual 
tax-free stipend at the standard UK rate. International students who 
can fund the difference between UK/EU and International fee rates are 
also encouraged to apply. 

Applicants should have or expect to obtain a good (I or II(i)) honours 
degree in mathematics or in a related discipline. Experience of 
numerical mathematics and/or programming would be beneficial. 

For more information please contact Dr Pestana (<jennifer.pestana@strath.ac.uk>). 