---
title: "Post Doctoral Researcher - MACSI, University of Limerick (x2 positions)"
page: http://www.ul.ie/hrvacancies/
posted: 2017-10-18 00:00:00
closes: 2017-10-31 12:00:00
---

The Mathematics Applications Consortium for Science and Industry (MACSI) is 
Ireland's largest applied and industrial mathematics group and works closely 
with scientists and industrial companies across a wide variety of sectors. 
MACSI's aim is to foster new collaborative research, in particular on problems 
that arise in industry through the application of cutting-edge mathematical and 
modelling techniques. 

The emerging discipline of Computational Social Science (CSS) studies human 
behaviour, as manifested in the digital trails we leave in our interactions with 
each other. The development of mathematical models for CSS is urgently required 
to underpin the analysis of large-scale data and to move beyond the 
identification of correlations to create new scientific understanding of 
collective behaviour in both online and offline social networks.

In this Science Foundation Ireland funded project, we are seeking to recruit two 
postdoctoral researchers to develop new mathematical techniques and models to 
help revolutionise the understanding of the dynamics of social spreading 
phenomena, such as viral information contagion and cascades of popularity. We 
will focus on the mathematics of age-dependent (non-Markovian) branching 
processes to generate analytical and asymptotic results for inference and 
calibration with large-scale CSS data. Understanding and controlling the 
temporal aspects of information diffusion and cascade dynamics on social 
networks will improve the predictability of technology adoption and opinion 
propagation and enable us to accurately identify the most influential nodes 
within diverse dynamical systems on complex networks. As part of the project, we 
will seek to develop and apply algorithms to social spreading phenomena that are 
of interest to industry partners. 

The candidate should have a strong publication record in either or both of the 
following areas:  

- Mathematics of networks.  
- Analysis and model calibration using large-scale Computational Social Science data.


Further information for applicants and application material is 
available online from: <http://www.ul.ie/hrvacancies/>

The closing date for receipt of applications is Tuesday, 31st October 
2017.

Applications must be completed online before 12 noon, Irish Standard 
Time on the closing date.

Please note your application must include:

- A letter of introduction indicating how you meet the criteria outlined in the 
Job description.
- A completed online Application Form (separate application forms must be 
submitted for each post applied for).

Please email <erecruitment@ul.ie> if you experience any difficulties. 

Informal enquiries regarding the post may be directed to:   
Prof James Gleeson  
Dept of Mathematics & Statistics   
University of Limerick   
Email: <james.gleeson@ul.ie>

Applications are welcome from suitably qualified candidates.
The University is an equal opportunities employer and committed to 
selection on merit.
 