---
title: "Faculty Position, Computational Math, Emory University"
page: https://apply.interfolio.com/45261
posted: 2017-09-22 00:17:00
closes: 2017-12-10 12:00:00
---

Emory University's Mathematics & Computer Science Department invites
applications for a tenure-track faculty position in Computational
Mathematics, to begin in Fall 2018. Appointments are expected to be at
the Assistant Professor level, but truly exceptional candidates may be
considered for senior appointments. Applicants must demonstrate
outstanding research ability and have a PhD in Mathematics, Computer
Science, or a closely related field. Applicants should also have
strong records, or promise, as undergraduate and graduate
teachers. Ideal candidates will have interdisciplinary interests that
complement and enhance Emory's current and vibrant research strengths
in numerical linear algebra, networks, inverse problems, numerical
optimization, numerical partial differential equations, and
computational fluid dynamics. For more details on Emory's faculty,
graduate students, postdocs, research and teaching activities in
Computational Mathematics, see
<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>

Applications consisting of a cover letter, CV, research and teaching
statements, and three letters of recommendation directly from
recommenders can be submitted via <https://apply.interfolio.com/45261>
Informal inquiries about the position are also invited by email to
<compmathsearch2017@mathcs.emory.edu>. Screening starts December 1,
2017, and will continue until the position is filled. For additional
information about the department, please see <http://www.mathcs.emory.edu>

Emory University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action/
Disability/Veteran employer. Women, minorities, persons with
disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply. Emory University
is committed to student and faculty diversity, equity, and
inclusion. In your cover letter or in a separate statement, please
reflect upon your experience and vision regarding the teaching and
mentorship of students from diverse backgrounds.

Emory University is a top-ranked private institution recognized
internationally for its outstanding colleges, graduate and
professional schools, and one of the world's leading health care
systems. Emory scholars and experts generate more that $574 million
dollars in research funding annually while also highly valuing
excellence in teaching. Emory's beautiful campus is a part of the
energetic Atlanta metropolitan area, which is home to more than five
million people and has a diversity of cultural, social, entertainment,
shopping and recreational options. Atlanta, often referred to as "the
City in a Forest", has mild winters, long and beautiful spring and
fall seasons, and is home to the world's busiest international
airport, providing ready access to global travel.

