---
title: "Chair, Department of Mathematics, University of Texas at San Antonio"
page: https://jobs.utsa.edu/postings/7626
posted: 2017-11-14 00:00:00
closes: 2017-12-13 12:00:00
---

The University of Texas at San Antonio seeks an innovative and dynamic leader for the Department of Mathematics with demonstrated leadership abilities who will build on departmental strengths, recruit outstanding faculty, promote scholarly initiatives - especially in terms of externally supported grant efforts - and be an advocate to both internal University and external constituencies.   UTSA is a vibrant University aspiring to reach Tier One research status. The Department is located within the College of Sciences and offers a Bachelor degree in Mathematics and Masters Programs in Mathematics, Mathematics Education, and Applied Mathematics-Industrial Mathematics. The Department has 22 full-time faculty with diverse interests and expertise and 33 non-tenured track faculty members. The department is committed to growing and expanding its undergraduate and graduate programs and developing a Ph.D. program. UTSA and the Mathematics Department are committed to supporting a growing diverse student body and encourage applications from women, minorities, and individuals with a commitment to mentoring under-represented demographics in the sciences. Opportunities for interdisciplinary interactions and collaborations exist not only within other departments and within colleges at UTSA, but also with the UT Health Science Center San Antonio, Southwest Research Institute, local military bases, and numerous companies including USAA, Boeing, and Rackspace.  San Antonio, Texas is a vibrant city of more than 1.5 million people, with significant economic growth, numerous industrial establishments and excellent school districts. The city and the University provide excellent cultural and educational opportunities as well as exceptional employment opportunities.

Position requirements:

- Degree Requirements: PhD or equivalent in Mathematics. The area of specialization is open  
- Record of earning tenure at an accredited four-year university  
- Associate or full professor  
- Evidence of administrative experience in a higher education setting (center, department, program, director graduate studies, etc.).  
- A strong record of externally funded and recognized research  
- Record of teaching effectiveness and mentoring of students including doctoral students  
- Record of involvement with national/international organizations  
- An ability to work productively with faculty and students from diverse backgrounds  

Required Application Materials

1. Letter of application/narrative statement that describes, in 1 to 3 pages, applicant's qualifications for the position and plans for future administrative/research/teaching for the department.  
2. Teaching agenda/statement (max. 2pages)  
3. Research agenda/statement (max. 2 pages)  
4. Curriculum vita   
5. Provide a minimum of 3 references   
6. Sample publications (in PDF format): provide work that is representative of research.  
7. Statement of Administrative Philosophy  

Review of completed applications will begin on November 17, 2017 and continue until the position is filled.  

All applicants should submit their application materials through the <https://jobs.utsa.edu/postings/7626> site.

UTSA is an Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants who are selected for interviews must be able to show proof that they will be eligible and qualified to work in the United States by time of hire.