---
title: Tenure-Track Faculty Positions, Computing and Software, McMaster University, Ontario, Canada
page: http://www.cas.mcmaster.ca/cas/JOBS/cas_hiringadfeb120172.pdf
posted: 2017-02-16 00:00:00
closes: 2017-04-16 12:00:00
---

The Faculty of Engineering at McMaster University has a reputation for innovative programs, cutting-edge research, leading faculty, and aspiring students. It has earned a strong reputation as a centre for academic excellence and innovation. The Faculty has approximately 180 faculty members, along with close to 4,500 undergraduate and 1,000 graduate students. The Faculty of Engineering promotes a nurturing and inclusive environment where opportunities are made available for personal growth and professional development.

To enrich its flourishing research programs, the Department of Computing and Software at McMaster University is seeking outstanding individuals for multiple tenure-track faculty positions at the rank of Assistant Professor.  However, a more senior level appointment may be possible for exceptional candidates.  The Department is slated to grow significantly over the next few years, and new hires will have the opportunity to influence future directions.  

Qualified candidates in the following areas are strongly encouraged to apply: machine learning, smart systems, high performance computing with applications to data analytics, and software engineering. Exceptional candidates in related areas will also be considered. Candidates must have demonstrated the potential for excellence in research, as well as having strong communication skills and being committed to education.  They are also expected to have demonstrated an ability to work effectively with individuals from diverse communities and cultures.  The successful candidates will be expected to establish a dynamic research program in their fields of expertise, to become engaging teachers and mentors at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and to make strong commitment to curricula development.  They will also be expected to explore opportunities for research collaborations across the Faculty of Engineering, and across the University. Successful candidates are expected to become registered with Professional Engineers Ontario.

The successful candidates will have the opportunity to engage with faculty members and research staff associated with McMaster's world-class research and teaching laboratory facilities in software and data intensive systems and data analytics areas, including: the McMaster Centre for Software Certification (McSCert), the McMaster Automotive Resource Centre (MARC), the Shared Hierarchical Academic Research Computing Network  (SharcNet), Advanced Optimization Laboratory (AdvOL), Computing Infrastructure Research Centre (CIRC), and the MacData Institute.

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply.  However, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given priority.  These positions will ideally commence July 1, 2017.  The selection process will begin by March 1, 2017, and continue until the positions are filled.

Applications, including cover letter, statement of research and teaching interests, curriculum vitae, research samples (published articles or other evidences of research contributions), evidence of teaching effectiveness, and names and contact information of 3 to 5 references, should be sent to Laurie Leblanc at <leblanl@mcmaster.ca>. 

McMaster University's beautiful campus is at the north-west end of Hamilton on the western end of Lake Ontario, between the Niagara Escarpment, conservation lands, and the Royal Botanical Gardens.  Hamilton, with a population of over 500,000, is a vibrant community with easy access to Toronto and the Niagara region.  It is located at the northern tip of an ecological zone commonly called the Carolinian Forest that encompasses the southern-most portion of Ontario but occurs nowhere else in Canada.  As a result, Hamilton is home to many unique species of plants and animals that only occur here because the summer climate approaches that of North and South Carolina in the United States. 

McMaster University is strongly committed to employment equity within its community and to recruiting a diverse faculty and staff.  The University encourages applications from all qualified candidates including women, persons with disabilities, First Nations, Metis and Inuit persons, members of racialized communities and LGBTQ-identified persons.  If you require any form of accommodation throughout the recruitment and selection procedure, please contact the Human Resources Service Centre at (905) 525 9140, Extension 222-HR (22247).

See <http://www.cas.mcmaster.ca/cas/JOBS/cas_hiringadfeb120172.pdf> for more information. 
