---
title: "Postdoctoral Position in Numerical Linear Algebra on Extreme-scale Computers at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Oxfordshire, UK"
page:  http://topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc242252_7364.aspx
posted: 2017-08-16 00:00:00
closes: 2017-09-24 23:59:00
---

We are inviting applications for a postdoctoral position in the Computational
Mathematics Group at STFC-RAL in Oxfordshire, UK.

The successful candidate will join  the Numerical Linear Algebra for Future 
and Emerging Technologies (NLAFET) project funded by the European Commission 
involving Inria, Umea University, University of Manchester and STFC-RAL.  
The position will focus on the design, implementation, and evaluation of
parallel algorithms for numerical linear algebra with regards to
extreme-scale challenges.  The  research at RAL will principally be on 
sparse direct solvers that are highly scalable and thus suitable for future 
and emerging large scale computers.  The algorithms developed will be 
validated on several applications targeted by NLAFET, such as power systems, 
computational fluid dynamics, and astrophysics.  The research will be done in 
close collaboration with established researchers in the Computational 
Mathematics Group as well as with other partners in NLAFET.

Candidates should have a PhD in applied mathematics or computer
science and expertise in numerical linear algebra and high
performance computing. The candidate must have a visa to work in the UK
which automatically includes any UK or EU citizen.

This post offers a full-time research appointment until the end of the
project on 31 October 2018.

Informal enquiries may be made to: Iain Duff <iain.duff@stfc.ac.uk>.

To apply or to find out more details about the position,
please go to the STFC recruitment portal at:
<http://topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc242252_7364.aspx>

The deadline for applications is 24th September 2017 but I encourage people to
apply well before that date.  The appointment can begin at any time after
the job offer and ideally the post should start on or before 1st November 2017.
