---
title: IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships
page: 
posted: 2017-01-02 17:38:00
closes: 2017-03-02 12:00:00
---

The IMA has several openings for Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships. The positions are intended for mathematical scientists at an early stage of their career. Preference will be given to those who have completed their Ph.D. within three years of the start of the appointment. Jointly funded by IMA industrial partners and the IMA, the fellowships begin August 30, 2017, and can be renewed for up to a total of two years. The postdocs will devote 50% effort to projects onsite at the IMA's partner company and 50% effort on their own research under the mentorship of a University of Minnesota faculty. The position carries an annual salary of $65,000 and an allowance of up to $3,000 for professional travel.

IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships are ideal for mathematical scientists who wish to pursue careers in industry or academic positions that involve industrial interactions. All industry projects involve data and their analysis. Previous data science experience is desirable but not required.

Required Qualifications  

* A Ph.D. in mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, biostatistics, operations research or related areas by the start of the appointment.  
* Strong programming skills -- proficiency in one or more programming languages, familiarity with a few others.  
* Excellent interpersonal, presentation, and written skills  

The research statement you submit is an important part of the application. Your statement should not only outline your research interests and goals, but should also explain why the IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowship would be an effective place for you to pursue these interests and goals.
Consideration of applications will begin on January 19, 2017.

