---
title: "Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computing Sciences at Berkeley Lab"
page: http://go.lbl.gov/alvarez
posted: 2017-10-21 00:00:00
closes: 2017-11-13 12:00:00
---

Berkeley Lab is now accepting applications for the 2018 Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computing Sciences

Apply now for this prestigious fellowship! Researchers in computer science, applied mathematics or any computational science discipline who have received their Ph.D. within the last three years are encouraged to apply. The successful applicant will receive a competitive salary, professional travel allowance, relocation assistance, excellent benefits, and an opportunity to work in the San Francisco Bay Area. Since its founding in 2002, the fellowship has cultivated exceptional young scientists who have gone on to make outstanding contributions to computational and computing sciences. 



For more information, please visit: go.lbl.gov/alvarez

Berkeley Lab's Computing Sciences organization researches, develops, and deploys new tools and technologies to meet these needs and to advance research in such areas as global climate change, combustion, fusion energy, nanotechnology, biology, and astrophysics. Research areas in Computing Sciences include:

- Researching and developing software and hardware to support extreme-scale computing  
- Developing mathematical modeling for complex scientific problems  
- Designing algorithms to improve the performance of scientific applications  
- Researching computer architectures to improve system performance  
- Advancing extreme scientific data management  
- Evaluating new and promising computing and networking technologies  
- Researching methods to control and manage dynamic circuit networks  
- Developing large scale visualization and analytics technologies  
- Performing data analysis in distributed environments  

Application Process:  
For consideration applications are due November 13, 2017. Letters of Reference are due November 17, 2017. Following your application submission, you will receive a message with detailed instructions regarding the application process.
 
