---
title: "Tenure-track faculty positions in Computer Science, Courant Institute, NYU"
page: https://cs.nyu.edu/webapps/facapp/register
posted: 2017-10-16 00:00:00
closes: 2017-12-16 12:00:00
---

New York University/Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences  
Department of Computer Science  
Tenure Track Faculty Positions  

The department expects to have several regular faculty positions and  invites candidates at all levels to apply. We will consider outstanding candidates in any area of computer science, in particular in scientific computing, verification, programming languages, machine learning and data science.

Faculty members are expected to be outstanding scholars and to participate in teaching at all levels from undergraduate to doctoral. New appointees will be offered competitive salaries and startup packages. In addition, we fully expect to secure affordable housing for the appointees within a short walking distance of the department. New York University is located in Greenwich Village, one of the most attractive residential areas of Manhattan.

Collaborative research with industry is facilitated by geographic proximity to computer science activities at AT&T, Facebook, Google, IBM, Bell Labs, NEC, and Siemens.

Please apply at <https://cs.nyu.edu/webapps/facapp/register>

To guarantee full consideration, applications should be submitted no later than December 1, 2017; however, this is not a hard deadline, as all candidates will be considered to the full extent feasible, until all positions 
are filled. Visiting positions may also be available.

EOE/AA/Minorities/Females/Veterans/Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity