---
title: Postdoc in Data Science at AIMS-South Africa
page: https://www.aims.ac.za/en/opportunities/postdoctoral-fellow-in-data-science
posted: 2017-01-25 00:00:00
closes: 2017-02-15 12:00:00
---


The African Institute for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS) - South Africa, <https://www.aims.ac.za/en/home>, is searching for a postdoc in Data Science, see 
<https://www.aims.ac.za/en/opportunities/postdoctoral-fellow-in-data-science>
or details below. 

#### CALL FOR APPLICATIONS: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Data Science #####

The very crucial new field of Data Science is evolving very rapidly and has the potential to affect many applications. For the Mathematical Science community, we see lots of challenging mathematical and computational underpinnings of Data Science with tons of interesting research questions to investigate. The Data Science research group that is being built around the German Research Chair in Mathematics with specialization in Data Science will undertake research on the mathematical and computational challenges of the field. Research projects will be spread over the following thematic areas:

 - Mathematical methods for data science  
 - Computational techniques (algorithms) for data science  
 - Application of data science tools to problems from industry  
 - HPC implementations and studies of arising scientific computing issues  
 
**Planned Supervision**: Dr. Bubacarr Bah in collaboration with the AIMS South Africa German Research Chair Collaborators, Prof. Gitta Kutyniok at TU Berlin and Prof. Holger Rauhut at Aachen University.

Fellowships are tenable for one year, contingent on satisfactory progress, and could be extended for a second year. Fellowships are immediately available and the value of the award ranges between R200--R240k per annum, tax-free, subject to qualification and experience. Other benefits included the provision of a laptop, coverage of all cost associated with the use of HPC resources, and a conference travel allowance of R 30,000 per annum.

Preference will be given to applicants from SADC member states but candidates from all over Africa are encouraged to apply.

**Duties**

 - Conducting research in the thematic areas of Data Science stated above  
 - Publish results in leading peer-reviewed journals and at international conferences  
 - Assist senior researchers in guiding students on research projects  
 - Collaborate with researchers at the AIMS Research Centre  
 - Have some involvement in the AIMS-South Africa academic and outreach programs, and duties incidental thereto.  

**Requirements**

 - A relevant doctorate of high standing  
 - A developing research capability which will lead to good publications  
 - Ability to tutor postgraduate students successfully  
 - Ability to work as part of an interdisciplinary team  
 - Good communication skills  
 - Fluency in English  

**Applications package**

 - A covering letter motivating the application  
 - A comprehensive CV stating research plans in the above or related areas  
 - Two reference letters from academics familiar with your work  
 - Statement on citizenship and whether a South African work permit is currently being held  
 - Other practical information such as earliest date of commencement  
 - Please note the Fellowship cannot be held concurrently with any supplementary funding.    

Send completed applications to <joan@aims.ac.za> 


Send subject related questions to <bubacarr@aims.ac.za>

Closing dates for applications: February 15, 2017  

DISCLAIMER: AIMS South Africa reserves the right to disqualify ineligible, incomplete and/or inappropriate applications. AIMS also reserves the right not to make an appointment to the position as advertised or to extend the deadline for applications. Only successful applicants will be contacted.  