---
title: "Two Tenure-Track Assistant Professor positions at The University of Akron"
page: 
posted: 2017-11-13 00:00:00
closes: 2017-12-05 12:00:00
---

The Department of Mathematics at The University of Akron invites applications for two tenure-track Assistant Professor positions starting Fall Semester 2018, with priority given to research areas that augment the existing strengths of the Department - applied and computational mathematics, partial differential equations, finite group theory, and geometric combinatorics.  The job responsibilities include teaching and research at the university level.  Preference will be given to candidates whose research has strong connections to applications and potential for collaboration with members of the Department or across campus.  Salary is commensurate with background and experience.  Startup funds are available.
 
Applicants must possess a Ph.D. degree in mathematics or a closely related field by the time of employment, and are expected to provide evidence of an active research program, evidence of teaching experience, and interest in directing student research.  Priority will be given to candidates with postdoctoral experience and demonstrated interest in pursuing external funding.
 
The Department offers Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Mathematics and Applied Mathematics, and accelerated BS/MS 5-year programs.  An Engineering Applied Mathematics doctoral program, emphasizing interdisciplinary applied mathematics, is offered through the College of Engineering.  Additional information about the Department and its programs can be found at <http://www.uakron.edu/math>.
 
The University of Akron is a state-assisted metropolitan university in northeast Ohio with approximately 22,000 students.  The University is well-known for its interdisciplinary programs and has a world-class polymer science program as well as widely recognized programs in engineering, science, business and education.  The University has launched a data science initiative housed in the College of Arts and Sciences.
 
Applicants should submit an application letter, AMS cover sheet, curriculum vitae, statement of research interests, statement of teaching philosophy, unofficial copy of graduate transcripts, and three letters of recommendation, at least one of which should address teaching.
 
References and inquiries should be sent to <phoover@uakron.edu>.  Screening of completed applications will begin on December 1, 2017 and continue until the positions are filled.
 
For complete details and to apply please visit: <http://www.uakron.edu/jobs>. Job ID# 10510
  
The University of Akron is an equal education and employment institution. It is the policy of this institution that there shall be no unlawful discrimination against any individual in employment or in its programs or activities at The University of Akron because of race, color, religion, sex, age, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, genetic information, military status or status as a veteran.  The University is also committed to the principles of affirmative action and acts in accordance with state and federal laws.
 