---
title: Ph.D. positions on Model-based generation of linear algebra software
page: http://hpac.rwth-aachen.de/positions/
posted: 2018-06-05 12:00:00
closes: 2018-08-05 12:00:00
---

The High-Performance and Automatic Computing group (HPAC) [1] at RWTH Aachen University (Germany) has immediate openings for fully-funded Ph.D. positions in computer science, to work on code generation for linear algebra and tensor operations. The research contributes to the Linnea project [2], and draws from the many compilers, libraries, and frameworks (BLIS, FLAME, TTC, TCCG, TBLIS, ...) developed within HPAC and the Science of High-Performance Computing group [3]. Applications from excellent candidates are invited.

These positions are part of a collaboration between RWTH Aachen University and The University of Texas at Austin, and will be co-supervised by Prof. Paolo Bientinesi (RWTH) and Prof. Robert van de Geijn (UT Austin). Research stays at UT Austin are expected.

The appointments --either at the payscale TVL-13 (about 3600 Euros/month gross at the entry level [2]) or as a tax-free stipend (2000 Euros/month net)-- will be initially for one year, and will be extended for two extra years upon positive evaluation.

**Applications** 
To apply, please email the following documents to Prof. Paolo Bientinesi (<pauldj@aices.rwth-aachen.de>), with subject "PhD @ HPAC":

- cover letter (why are you applying? what are your interests?)  
- detailed CV  
- transcripts from your Bachelor and MS degrees  
- contact info of at least two references  
- pointers to your previous publications and software projects (if any)  

**Deadline**  
The review of applications will begin *immediately* and will continue until the positions are filled.

**References**

1 <hpac.rwth-aachen.de>  
2 <https://github.com/HPAC/linnea>  
3 <http://shpc.ices.utexas.edu>  
4 <https://github.com/flame/blis>  

**Requirements**

- Master's degree in computer science or related field.  
- The project lies at the intersection of a variety of topics, including numerical linear algebra, high-performance computing, automation, compilers & code-generation, parallel computing. Because of this, the candidates need to be able to acquire knowledge in new subjects quickly and independently.  
- Good knowledge of C and demonstrated ability to develop high-quality compilers or libraries or software in general. Knowledge of other languages such as Julia, Mathematica, C++, Python, Matlab, is a plus.  
- Ability to work productively both independently and as part of an interdisciplinary team.  
- Excellent oral and written English communication skills.
