---
title: Postdoc in Scientific Computing/Machine Learning at William and Mary
page: https://jobs.wm.edu/postings/33877
posted: 2018-11-07 12:00:00
closes: 2018-12-20 12:00:00
---

Applications are invited for a postdoc position in the Computer Science
Department at the College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA, USA. 
The position is initially for one year, renewable for a second year based 
upon performance. The candidate is expected to lead together with 
professors A. Stathopoulos and Z. Liu an NSF-funded project of designing 
and implementing large scale Singular Value Decomposition solvers 
optimized for modern machine learning algorithms. It has two specific 
objectives. First, to provide high performance implementations of state-of-
the-art Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) techniques, including 
randomized, streaming, and iterative methods, which will deliver consistent 
user experience for a diverge range of problems and requirements. 
Second, to implement high level interfaces that enable downstream 
applications in machine learning and SVD solvers to interoperate. The 
candidates will also be exposed to opportunities to tackle tough, large scale 
machine learning problems alongside with statisticians and engineers. 

Required Qualifications: Ph.D. In a scientific computing area, with strong 
programming skills in C/C++/Python. Strong background in two of the three 
areas: numerical linear algebra, high performance computing, and machine 
learning applications.

Preferred Qualifications: Strong background in all above three areas, and 
experience in creating/maintaining open source software at public 
repositories.

To apply submit a vita and the names of at least two references at 
<https://jobs.wm.edu/postings/33877> , Position Number: F0991W.  
Reviewing of applications starts on Dec 10, 2018, and continues until the 
position is filled.
