---
title: Two Tenure-track Assistant Professor positions, ICES, UT Austin
page: https://www.ices.utexas.edu/about/jobs/
posted: 2018-12-06 12:00:00
closes: 2019-01-15 12:00:00
---

The Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences (ICES) at The University of Texas at Austin is an interdisciplinary research and education institute focused on transforming science, engineering, and medicine through computation. ICES invites applicants for two tenure-track assistant professor faculty positions. 

The first position is at the interfaces of Data Science and Computational Science. Areas of interest include, but are not limited to, computational statistics, machine learning, graph theory, randomized linear algebra, and tensor methods. Candidates should have a strong connection to challenging applications in science, engineering and/or medicine. Candidates should be committed to establishing an interdisciplinary research program at the intersection of advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational techniques, high-performance computing, and target applications. The successful candidate will be appointed in an appropriate department at UT, depending on their research and teaching interests.   

The second position is in the area of Computational Medicine. Areas of interest include, but are not limited to, computational oncology, computational cardiology, computational neurosciences, and imaging science. Candidates should be committed to establishing an interdisciplinary research program at the intersection of target medical problems and advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational techniques. The successful candidate will be appointed in an appropriate department at UT, depending on their research and teaching interests. This includes the possibility of an appointment at the new Dell Medical School.

Review of applications will begin January 15, 2019.
Full details on both positions can be found at <https://www.ices.utexas.edu/about/jobs/>