---
title: PhD Positions, Scientific Computing, Emory University, Atlanta
page: http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/
posted: 2018-07-13 12:00:00
closes: 2018-09-13 12:00:00
---


Several PhD positions in scientific computing are available in the
Department of Mathematics at Emory University. Numerical Analysis
and Scientific Computing are among the department's key focus
areas. Our graduate program focuses on numerical linear algebra,
partial differential equations, optimization, inverse problems and
offers excellent research opportunities in these areas and
opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations with leading
experts from a variety of disciplines including cardiology,
radiology, biostatistics, biomedical engineering, geophysics, and
machine learning.

For PhD students in Mathematics, a number of five-year scholarships
are available. International students are encouraged to apply, and
successful candidates will receive visa sponsorship. Incoming
students are required to have a BSc degree in mathematics, computer
science, or a related field. Applicants with MSc degrees are
welcome to apply for admission as 'advanced standing.'

More information can be found at
<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>

Interested candidates should contact <compmathphd@emory.edu>   
All applicants must submit an application package consisting of:  

(1) curriculum vitae and transcripts  
(2) statement of purpose  
(3) a minimum of two letters of reference  

Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until
the positions are filled. Anticipated start date is September 1,
but other options, such as January 1, are possible.
