---
title: PhD Fellowships in Computational Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (CSEM) program, ICES, UT Austin
page: https://www.ices.utexas.edu/graduate-studies/
posted: 2018-11-07 12:00:00
closes: 2018-12-15 12:00:00
---

The Institute for Computational Science and Engineering (ICES) at the
University of Texas at Austin invites applications for four-year
PhD fellowships in its Computational Science, Engineering, and
Mathematics (CSEM) graduate program. The fellowships cover tuition and
fees and feature generous stipends.

The CSEM program offers a unique interdisciplinary PhD degree that
integrates applied mathematics, computing, and applications in
science, engineering, medicine, and beyond. Students conduct research
in such mathematical and computational areas as scientific computing,
uncertainty quantification, numerical analysis, optimization, parallel
algorithms, inverse problems, controls, machine learning, and data
analysis, with applications in materials, engineering, medicine, life
sciences, geosciences, physical sciences, and others. Students use
leading-edge supercomputers and visualization facilities at the Texas
Advanced Computing Center (TACC) for their work.

ICES brings together under one roof applied mathematicians, computer
scientists, statisticians, and computational scientists/engineers from
23 academic departments to address challenging problems that can be
tackled only from an integrated perspective. Most of ICES' 250+
graduate students, postdocs, research scientists, core faculty,
visitors, and staff are housed together in a 180,000 sq ft
state-of-the-art building.

To apply for Fall 2019 admission and to be considered for a PhD
fellowship, please visit <https://www.ices.utexas.edu/graduate-studies/>.
The application deadline is December 15, 2018.
