---
title: Postdoc Positions, Randomized Numerical Analysis, North Carolina State University
page: https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?joblist-177-12087
posted: 2018-09-09 12:00:00
closes: 2018-11-09 12:00:00
---

The Department of Mathematics at NC State University has an open
postdoctoral position under its new NSF funded Research Training Group
RTG, DMS-1745654 in Randomized Numerical Analysis. The position is
restricted to US citizens, nationals and permanent residents. The
postdoctoral associate must hold a Ph.D. in mathematics or a closely
related discipline awarded after January 1, 2017. An exception to this
rule, occasioned for instance by a career interruption, may be
requested in the cover letter.

The postdoctoral associate is expected to engage in research related
to at least one of the three complementary research thrusts of the
project in randomized numerical linear algebra, random nonlinear
solvers and global sensitivity analysis. Strengths in applied
probability, numerical analysis, and scientific computing are an
asset. Based on background, experience, and interests, the postdoc will
be assigned one research mentor from the faculty associated with the
RTG: Alen Alexanderian, Pierre Gremaud, Ilse Ipsen, Tim Kelley, Arvind
Saibaba and Ralph Smith. An academic mentor will be chosen from this
group to oversee the postdoc's training and professional
development. The postdoc will also play a leading role in mentoring
students associated with some of the project's working groups; he/she
will be expected to assist in organizing seminars and activities
related to the general research of the RTG. In addition, the postdoc
will teach on average one course per semester in the Department of
Mathematics.

This position is for a term of up to three years, contingent upon
performance. The starting date is anticipated between January and
August 2019. The 11-month salary of $62,500 includes summer
support. In addition, the postdoc will be given an annual travel
budget of $3,000.

Submit your application materials (cover letter, a CV, a research
statement and the names of at least three potential letter writers)
through [mathjobs.org](http://mathjobs.org) at
<https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?joblist-177-12087>. Women and members of
under-represented minority groups are particularly encouraged to
apply. Applications will be evaluated on a rolling basis until the
position is filled; please apply as soon as possible. Inquiries may be
directed to Pierre Gremaud (RTG Director): <gremaud@ncsu.edu>.