---
title: Graduate Fellowships, Computational Mathematics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
page: http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/admissions/index.html>
posted: 2018-11-01 12:00:00
closes: 2018-12-15 12:00:00
---

Emory University invites applications for Graduate Fellowships.  The
Departments of Mathematics and Computer Science offer M.Sc.  and PhD
tracks and a variety of possible research specializations.  For PhD
students in Mathematics, a number of five-year scholarships are
available.
 
Graduate students receive scholarships that cover all tuition
expenses, a stipend (minimum 31,000 USD per year), health insurance,
and professional development support funds (minimum 2,500 USD) to
support travel to conferences. Moreover, several special admissions
scholarships are available. More info:

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/admissions/finance_overview.html>
<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/professional-development/pds/index.html>
 
Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing are among the departments'
key focus areas. Our graduate program focuses on numerical linear
algebra, partial differential equations, and optimization and their
application to computational fluid dynamics, inverse problems, and
machine learning. Graduate students are offered excellent research
opportunities in these areas and opportunities for interdisciplinary
collaborations with leading experts from a variety of disciplines
including cardiology, radiology, biostatistics, biomedical
engineering, geophysics, and data science.  More information about our
research group can be found at:

<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>
 
International students are encouraged to apply, and successful
candidates will need to obtain a US visa. More info:

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/new_students/international.html>
 
The application deadline for Fall 2019 admission is December 15, 2018. 
Application instructions and further information can be found at

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/admissions/index.html>
