---
title: PhD/Postdoc Positions, Low-Rank Matrix Approximations, University of Mons
page: https://sites.google.com/site/nicolasgillis/coloramap/
posted: 2018-01-09 00:00:00
closes: 2018-03-07 12:00:00
---

The research group of Nicolas Gillis at the University of Mons (Belgium) is seeking highly qualified candidates for one doctoral and one postdoctoral position funded by the ERC (European Research Council). 

This project, entitled Constrained Low-Rank Matrix Approximations - Theoretical and Algorithmic Developments for Practitioners, focuses on the theory, algorithms and applications of low-dimensional representations of high-dimensional data based on low-rank matrix approximations; see <https://sites.google.com/site/nicolasgillis/coloramap/overview> for a description of the project and the objectives. The successful candidate will have the flexibility to choose a topic within the range of this project. 

Your profile is a MSc/PhD in applied mathematics, mathematics, computer science, or a related discipline. You must have an expertise in at least one of these fields: optimization, computational complexity, numerical linear algebra, data mining and machine learning, hyperspectral imaging. You should have excellent programming skills in a numerical language (such as Matlab), and good communications skills, both written and oral, in English.

The positions remain open until they are filled. The starting date is flexible (ideally in September 2018). 

Please see <https://sites.google.com/site/nicolasgillis/coloramap/> for more details.
