---
title: Postdoc Positions in Computational Electromagnetics
page: http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Program.aspx?LabCode=13&ReturnURL=%2fRAPLab10%2fOpportunity%2fPrograms.aspx%3fLabCode%3d13
posted: 2018-02-06 00:00:00
closes: 2018-05-01 12:00:00
---


The high powered electromagnetics effects branch, part of the United States Air Force Research Lab at Kirtland AFB located in Albuquerque, New Mexico, has advertised three postdoc opportunities for talented and knowledgeable individuals through the National Research Council (NRC) Research Associateship Program.

RO#: 13.10.03.C0029  
Advanced computational plasma physics modeling for next generation technologies  
Adviser: Dr.Michael White (<Michael.White.113@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=C0029>

RO#: 13.10.03.B6938  
Algorithm Development for Electromagnetic Plasma Simulation  
Adviser: Dr.Andrew Greenwood (<andrew.greenwood@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=B6938>

RO#: 13.10.03.B6936  
State-of-the-Art, Massively Parallel Computational Electromagnetics  
Adviser: Dr.Andrew Greenwood (<andrew.greenwood@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=B6936>

All three opportunities require expertise in at least two of the following areas: plasma physics (simulation), computational electromagnetics, applied mathematics (computational linear algebra), particle-in-cell methods, and parallel computing. The initial postdoc award will be for one year ($74,000 base stipend plus $3,500 travel money) and it can be extended by one more year (with a stipend increase) upon satisfactory progress. Student who will graduate before the award begins, postdoc researchers with recent degrees awarded, and senior researchers are all eligible to apply. Selected associates will receive an appropriately higher stipend based on the number of years of experience past their PhD.

It is expected that any interested applicant should first look at the NRC requirements to see if they are eligible and what supporting documents will be needed. Then Dr.Michael White or Dr.Andrew Greenwood should be contacted with an up-to-date CV and an outline of proposed research and methodology (no more than one page). The adviser will then work with the applicant into expanding the proposal which is then submitted as a part of the application. The NRC RAP accepts applications four times a year with the next window opening online on March 1, 2018 and closing on May 1, 2018. All applications require adviser-approved proposals. All other applications will be automatically rejected by the submission system. Therefore it is recommended that the advisers be contacted early-on.

***All three opportunities require US citizenship.***

US citizenship is mandatory for all three positions. In addition, the associate must clear a background check to be able to work on-base.

Further information is available at
<http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/rap/>  

<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Program.aspx?LabCode=13&ReturnURL=%2fRAPLab10%2fOpportunity%2fPrograms.aspx%3fLabCode%3d13>
