---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2015-11-09
author: David Bindel
comments: true
---



It was a pleasure seeing many of you at SIAM ALA in Atlanta, Georgia,
and it has been a pleasure serving as SIAG secretary.  We will have a
new slate of officers in January; don't forget to vote!


## CONTENTS

- [Minutes of the SIAG LA business meeting](#nav0)
- [SIAG officer elections](#nav1)
- [SIAG LA conference/job postings](#nav2)
- [SIAG LA at SIAM AN16](#nav3)
- [GAMM Annual Meeting Braunschweig 2016 - Section on Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra](#nav4)
- [Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications (MOPTA)](#nav5)
- [Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunity at Berkeley Lab](#nav6)
- [Postdoc Position, John von Neumann Fellow, Sandia National Labs](#nav7)
- [Multiple (DH, TL, TF) positions, AMS, Colorado School of Mines](#nav8)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav9)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Minutes of the SIAG LA business meeting</a>

The SIAG LA business meeting took place on October 27 during the
SIAM ALA meeting in Atlanta, Georgia.  Minutes of the meeting
have been posted at
<http://siags.siam.org/siagla//2015/10/27/minutes.html>.


---------------

## <a name="nav1">SIAG officer elections</a>

Officer elections for SIAG LA are underway, and voting is open
until Dec 2, 2015.  The slate is

  - Chair: Peter Benner and Jim Nagy
  - Vice-Chair: Zhaojun Bai and Alison Ramage
  - Program Director: Melina Freitag and Xiaoye Li
  - Secretary: Jennifer Pestana and Raf Vandebril

The nominating committee was Bruce Hendrickson, Iain Duff, Ilse Ipsen,
Chen Greif, and Paul Van Dooren.

In the initial posting, some of the candidate statements were cut off.
This has since been resolved, but for completeness, SIAM has allowed
us to post candidate statements at

<http://siags.siam.org/siagla/articles/2015-statements.pdf>


---------------

## <a name="nav2">SIAG LA conference/job postings</a>

In addition to the usual email-based submission, the SIAG LA web
page now has a form-based submission system for conference and
job advertisements.  You can reach these forms from the
"posting" link at the top of the conferences page and from a
link at the top of the jobs page.


---------------

## <a name="nav3">SIAG LA at SIAM AN16</a>

There is a SIAG LA track at the upcoming annual meeting!
Minisymposium proposals for AN16 are due January 11, and
contributed talks are due by February 1.  We would also like to
solicit posters for a SIAG-LA themed miniposterium (a collection
of three or more posters by different presenters grouped around
a central theme).  If you are interested in participating,
please contact Francoise Tisseur (ftisseur@ma.man.ac.uk).


---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php/2016/joint-dmv-and-gamm-annual-meeting">GAMM Annual Meeting Braunschweig 2016 - Section on Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra</a>
Dear colleagues,

The 87th Annual Meeting of the International Association of Applied
Mathematics and Mechanics (GAMM) will take place from 7th to the 11th
of March 2016 in Braunschweig, Germany
(<http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php>).

We are pleased to inform you that GAMM 2016 conference is jointly
organized with the German Mathematical Society
(<https://dmv.mathematik.de/>).


On behalf of the organizing committee we would like to invite you, your
colleagues, postdocs, PhD and master students to take an active part in
Section S17, "APPLIED AND NUMERICAL LINEAR ALGEBRA."

In general, contributed talks will have a length of 15 minutes plus 5
minutes for discussion. Once the abstracts have been received, depending
on the number of submissions and allowed time slots, we may have to select
an appropriate number of abstracts for presentations.

Please note that there will be four keynote lectures, each 35 minutes long,
distributed over the section sessions accordingly. We are greatly honored
that the following four speakers have agreed to present their work within
Section S17:

- Sabine Le Borne (TU Hamburg),
- Elisabeth Ullmann (TU Munich),
- Serkan Gugercin (Rice University),
- Stefan Guettel (University of Manchester).

For more detailed information concerning the submission of abstracts
as well as registration and accommodation, please visit the conference
website at <http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php/2016/joint-dmv-and-gamm-annual-meeting>


- Deadline for abstract submission is December 18.
- Deadline for early bird registration is December 31.
- Online registration opens on September 15, 2015 and will close on
  February 14, 2016.

We are looking forward to seeing and welcoming you in Braunschweig. Please
let us know if you have any questions regarding the scope or organization
of Section S17.

Section Organizers:

- Agnieszka Miedlar (`miedlar@math.tu-berlin.de`)
- Martin Stoll (`stollm@mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de`)

---------------

## <a name="nav5"></a><a href="http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta">Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications (MOPTA)</a>
We cordially invite you to contribute to the fourteenth annual
"Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications" (MOPTA) conference, organized at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, August 17-19, 2016.

MOPTA aims at bringing together a diverse group of people from both discrete and continuous optimization, working on both theoretical and applied aspects.  There will be invited plenary talks from distinguished speakers as well as organized sessions and contributed talks, spread over three days.  Our target is to provide a diverse set of exciting new developments from different areas of optimization research while at the same time providing a setting which will allow increased interaction among the participants.  We aim to bring together researchers from both the theoretical and applied communities in the framework of a medium-scale event who do not usually have the chance to interact in larger meetings.

We welcome contributed talks, and we are also very interested in hearing from people who could organize a session centered around one of their topics of expertise. MOPTA sessions have 3 speakers, with 30 mins per presentation including Q&A's. Speakers will be kindly asked to submit their abstract on the MOPTA website. The deadline for abstract submission is May 20.

Confirmed plenary speakers (so far):

* Michael P. Friedlander (University of California, Davis)
* Jacek Gondzio (The University of Edinburgh)
* Michael Pinedo (New York University)

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunity at Berkeley Lab</a>

The Computational Research Division, the National Energy Research
Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and the Scientific Networking
Division at the U.S. Department of Energy's Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory invite applications for the 2016 Luis W. Alvarez Fellowship
in Computational Science. The fellowship allows recent graduates with
a Ph.D. (or equivalent) to acquire unique scientific training at one
of the leading facilities for scientific computing and to develop
professional maturity for self-directed independent research.

The fellowship provides opportunities to work on some of the most
important research challenges in computing sciences, from the
architecture and software of next generation high performance
computing systems and networks, to mathematical modeling, algorithms,
and applications of advanced computing to astrophysics, cosmology,
chemical sciences, materials science, climate change, biology and
other scientific domains.  The successful candidate will be able to
interact and collaborate with Berkeley Lab researchers that develop
and apply the latest technologies to computational modeling,
simulation, and data analytics for scientific discovery.

The position offers a competitive salary and excellent benefits.

Additional information on the Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship
can be found at
<http://cs.lbl.gov/careers/luis-w-alvarez-postdoctoral-fellowship-in-computing-sciences/>.

For application instructions, please see our web page at
<https://lbl.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=81412>.
The application deadline is November 22, 2015 for Fall 2016.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Postdoc Position, John von Neumann Fellow, Sandia National Labs</a>

The Center for Computing Research and the Computer Sciences and
Information Systems Center at Sandia National Laboratories invite
outstanding candidates to apply for the 2016 John von Neumann
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship in Computational Science.  We are
seeking exceptional candidates who

* possess a strong technical background in computational mathematics
  and scientific computing,
* demonstrate the ability for independent research and self-motivation,
* have excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
* have the potential for technical leadership, and
* have the ability to contribute to and impact ongoing Sandia projects.

The application deadline is December 1, 2015.  More information about
the fellowship and the application process can be found on the John
von Neumann Fellowship website: <http://www.cs.sandia.gov/VN_Web_Page/>

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Multiple (DH, TL, TF) positions, AMS, Colorado School of Mines</a>

The Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics (AMS) at the
Colorado School of Mines (Mines) invites applications for multiple
positions in three categories: Department Head (DH), Tenure-Line (TL),
and Teaching Faculty (TF).

For information about the jobs postings, see the attached flyer and
following three URLs.

Questions about the position(s) should be directed to the chair of the
respective search committee.

1. AMS Department Head (chair: Prof. Navidi, `wnavidi@mines.edu`):
   <https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/jobs/7902>

2. Open rank TL position(s) in Applied Mathematics  (chair: Prof. Ganesh,
   `mganesh@mines.edu`): <https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/jobs/7812>

3. Open rank AMS TF position(s) (chair: Dr. Nicholas, `nicholas@mines.edu`):
   <https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/jobs/7765>

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Dec 07, 2015.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

