---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2015-11-30
author: David Bindel
comments: true
---



This edition of the SIAG LA digest is going out early to remind you
that there are still a few days left to register your vote for the
SIAG LA elections (open until December 2).


## CONTENTS

- [Miroslav Fiedler](#nav0)
- [SIAG officer elections](#nav1)
- [LA15 Presentations are now ready to view](#nav2)
- [2016 Copper Mountain Student Paper Competition](#nav3)
- [SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing 2016 (CSC16)](#nav4)
- [Postdoc positions at the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences](#nav5)
- [PhD student positions in fault tolerant linear algebra](#nav6)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav7)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Miroslav Fiedler</a>

With a deep sorrow we inform you that in the morning of 20th
November 2015, Professor Miroslav Fiedler passed away peacefully
at his home.

You may express your sympathy to the family by sending a message
to `mathinst@math.cas.cz`.

Jiri Rakosnik, Miroslav Rozloznik, Zdenek Strakos


---------------

## <a name="nav1">SIAG officer elections</a>

Officer elections for SIAG LA are underway, and voting is open
until this Wednesday, Dec 2, 2015.  The slate is

  - Chair: Peter Benner and Jim Nagy
  - Vice-Chair: Zhaojun Bai and Alison Ramage
  - Program Director: Melina Freitag and Xiaoye Li
  - Secretary: Jennifer Pestana and Raf Vandebril

The nominating committee was Bruce Hendrickson, Iain Duff, Ilse Ipsen,
Chen Greif, and Paul Van Dooren.

In the initial posting, some of the candidate statements were cut off.
This has since been resolved, but for completeness, SIAM has allowed
us to post candidate statements at

<http://siags.siam.org/siagla/articles/2015-statements.pdf>


---------------

## <a name="nav2">LA15 Presentations are now ready to view</a>

Dear LA15 attendees and SIAG/LA members,

Presentations from select sessions at the 2015 SIAM Conference
on Applied Linear Algebra are now available on SIAM
Presents... Featured Lectures from Our Archives:
  
<http://www.siam.org/meetings/presents.php>

View and listen to invited speakers and the SIAG/LA prize
lecture by David Bindel, Cornell University.  Also included are
select minisymposia.

Please go to the direct link below to view all the LA15 sessions
captured:

<https://www.pathlms.com/siam/courses/1697>

You do not need to login to view presentations, though
registering will allow you to track the presentations you
access. Audio/slides can be viewed by selecting the
meeting/course.  You can filter the list of sessions by using
the selections under "All Tracks" and then connecting to a
specific session.

Sincerely,

The SIAM Conference team  
`meetings@siam.org`


---------------

## <a name="nav3">2016 Copper Mountain Student Paper Competition</a>

The 14th Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods (March 20-25,
2016) invites submissions to the student paper competition, see
<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2016/student.php#Compete>

Any current student, or any recent PhD graduate whose degree was awarded
after January 1, 2015, is eligible to submit a paper. Papers must
contain original unpublished research due mainly to the student. These
papers must be received before January 15, 2016. The student must be the
primary author and the paper may be no more than 10 pages in length.

The paper must be emailed as an attachment in PDF format to
`copper@colorado.edu` and identified in the email as an entry for the 2016
student paper competition. In addition to emailing the paper, an
abstract for the paper must be submitted through our Abstract Submission
form. Sending only an abstract is unacceptable. A panel of judges will
determine the best papers.

The Copper Mountain Conference offers reduced student registration rates
and awards to pay for lodging and conference expenses for students,
subject to NSF funding. Postdocs are not they eligible for student
registration fees or lodging support. Students seeking support should
email the conference coordinator, Annette Anthony,
`annetteFanthony@gmail.com`, for more information.

The 2016 conference also features a Workshop on Iterative Linear
Algebraic Data Mining Techniques Workshop (Sunday, March 20 - Tuesday,
March 22), which may be of special interest to students, see
<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2016/workshops.php>

Michele Benzi, conference co-chair  
Ray Tuminaro, conference co-chair  
Sven Leyffer, student competition chair


---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16/">SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing 2016 (CSC16)</a>
With the continuing advances in high-performance computing, the role of computational science and engineering (CSE) has extensively grown in importance over the last decades. At the same time scientific simulations continue to face a number of challenges and generate massive amounts of data. Many of the underlying problems here are combinatorial in nature and unified by a common set of abstractions, data structures, and algorithms, often based on graphs and hypergraphs. On a related front, data science and analytics have emerged as powerful methods of inquiry across a broad range of domains and pose various fundamental challenges associated with size and complexity of data that would greatly benefit from combinatorial methods. CSC16 provides a forum for researchers interested in the interaction of combinatorial mathematics and algorithms with CSE and/or data science.

CSC16 follows five successful CSC workshops held roughly biennially since 2004. A new feature of CSC16 is that there will be a peer-reviewed proceedings associated with the workshop. The proceedings will be published by SIAM and hosted at its platform <http://epubs.siam.org/series/pr>. The papers will be made permanently available with DOI links. SIAM proceedings are indexed by major scientific bibliography databases.  

Authors are invited to submit manuscripts that present original unpublished research in all areas of combinatorial scientific computing. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, 

* Combinatorial (discrete) models in scientific computing
* Graph and hypergraph algorithms in scientific computing
* Sparse matrix computations
* Combinatorial problems in data science and network science
* Combinatorial problems in Algorithmic Differentiation
* Combinatorial problems in optimization
* Applications of combinatorial scientific computing

### Types of Submissions

We invite two types of submissions. 

1. Full Papers. Papers should not exceed ten (10) pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. The SIAM macro to be used for paper preparation is available at http://www.siam.org/proceedings/macros.php. Accepted papers will be included in the proceedings, which will be published electronically by SIAM at its proceedings platform. Accepted papers will be presented at the workshop as talks.

2. Extended Abstracts. Abstracts should not exceed 2 pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. Accepted abstracts will be presented as talks at the workshop, but will not be published in the proceedings.

### Important Dates

Submission deadline (for both papers and abstracts):  May 2, 2016, 11:59pm PDT.  
Notification of Acceptance: July 5, 2016.

Submission will be handled through EasyChair (<http://www.easychair.org>).  
Specific link for submission will be provided later.

### Workshop Co-chairs

- Erik Boman, Sandia National Laboratories, USA
- Assefaw Gebremedhin, Washington State University, USA

### Program Committee

- Cevdet Aykanat, Bilkent University, Turkey 
- Aydin Buluc, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA 
- Edmond Chow, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA 
- Seshadri Comandur, University of California Santa Cruz, USA 
- David Gleich, Purdue University, USA 
- Laura Grigori, INRIA, France 
- Mahantesh Halappanavar, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA 
- Jonathan Hogg, Science and Technology Facilities Council, UK 
- Kamesh Madduri, Pennsylvania State University, USA 
- Siva Rajamanickam, Sandia National Laboratories, USA 
- Ilya Safro, Clemson University, USA 
- Masha Sosonkina, Old Dominion University, USA 
- Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University, Israel 
- Miroslav Tuma, Academy of Sciences, Czech Republic 
- Andrea Walther, Paderborn University, Germany 
- Stefan Wild, Argonne National Laboratory, USA 

### Steering Committee

- Rob Bisseling, Utrecht University, the Netherlands 
- Bruce Hendrickson, Sandia National Laboratories, USA 
- X. Sherry Li, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA 
- Uwe Naumann, University of Aachen, Germany 
- Alex Pothen, Purdue University, USA 
- Bora Ucar, CNRS and ENS Lyon, France 

### Further Information

Further information about the workshop, including submission and registration details will be made available at the workshop&#8217;s website at <http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16/>.

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Postdoc positions at the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences</a>

The International Centre for Theoretical Sciences (ICTS), Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) is inviting applications for
postdoctoral positions (https://www.icts.res.in/news/details/199/) in
theoretical physics, interdisciplinary and applied mathematics,
computational science, astronomy, theoretical physical chemistry,
theoretical physical biology and related fields. Individuals who have
submitted their doctoral thesis are also encouraged to apply. The
positions are nominally for two years from the time of joining with
possibility of extension for the third year. In addition to regular
positions, ICTS offers prized postdoctoral fellowship positions
(SIMONS: <https://www.icts.res.in/news/details/198/> and AIRBUS:
<https://www.icts.res.in/news/details/197/>) for highly deserving
candidates.

### How to Apply

Interested candidates can apply online at:
<https://forms.icts.res.in/postdoc_app/> with their CV, list of
publications, a research proposal (not more than two pages) and a
covering letter (PDF). The applicants also need to arrange at least
three recommendation letters sent directly to the ICTS. The nominal
deadline is December 15, 2015; but applications will be considered
until the positions are filled. The nominal starting date of September
1, 2016 is negotiable. Informal queries may be addressed to the ICTS
faculty.

*Deadline: December 15, 2015*

<http://www.icts.res.in>  
<http://www.fondation.airbus-group.com>  
<http://www.simonsfoundation.org>  
E-mail: postdoc.committee@icts.res.in

---------------

## <a name="nav6">PhD student positions in fault tolerant linear algebra</a>

The research group Theory and Applications of Algorithms at the 
University of Vienna (UV) and the research group Parallel Computing at 
Vienna University of Technology (TU) have three openings for PhD 
students (two of them at UV, one at TU) in a joint research project on 
resilient and fault tolerant algorithms in numerical linear algebra 
(with co-PIs Wilfried Gansterer and Jesper Larsson Traeff).

All positions require a first-rate Master or Dipl.-Ing. degree in 
computer science, computer engineering, or a closely related field with 
a focus on algorithms and data structures, discrete mathematics and 
linear algebra, computer systems, parallel computing, and programming. 
Moreover, strong analytical skills, solid software development and 
programming skills, parallel computing experience (shared and/or 
distributed memory, programming models, interfaces, algorithms), 
demonstrated written and oral communication skills, effective 
interpersonal skills, a background in high performance computing (HPC), 
in dense numerical linear algebra, and in fault-tolerance for parallel
and distributed computing systems are required. The working language is 
English.

Each position is for three years. Expected starting date is March 1st, 
2016. Applications received by January 15th, 2016 will receive full 
consideration.

Please see <http://rlcta.univie.ac.at/Images/jobannouncement2015.pdf> for 
detailed information and address any questions to applyf15@univie.ac.at.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jan 04, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

