---
title: Minutes of the SIAG-LA business meeting
date: 2015-10-27
author: David Bindel
comments: true
---

The SIAG-LA business meeting was held on October 27 at the SIAM ALA
meeting.

## Presentation

The [slides][slides] presented by Dan Sorensen are available
online.  A few highlights:

[slides]: {{ site.baseurl }}/articles/2015-la-business.pptx

### SIAM ALA 2018

The next SIAM ALA meeting will take place in Hong Kong in 2018 in the
conference center at Hong Kong Baptist University.  Michael Ng is the
local organizer.  Since the business meeting, the SIAM has approved
David Bindel and Raymond Chan as co-chairs for the scientific committee.

### Gene Golub Summer School

Letters of intent for the Gene Golub Summer School are due by
Jan 2016.  We would like to strongly encourage SIAG LA members to
propose workshops!

### SIAG LA track at AN 16

There is a SIAG LA track at the upcoming annual meeting, organized by
Francoise Tisseur.  Minisymposium proposals are due January 11, and
contributed talks are due by February 1.

### Communications

The SIAG website has been significantly revised, and has moved from
its former home at Temple University to SIAG web space.  In addition
to communication via the web site, the SIAG LA digest goes out roughly
monthly.  The digest format has been carried over from the previous
SIAG officer group: following consultation with some of the Activity
Group members, they switched from immediately forwarding (unmoderated)
announcements to providing a monthly newsletter containing all of the
(relevant) announcements that we had received during the previous
month. This monthly newsletter is typically sent out to the
subscribers on the first Monday of each month. Some months there are
no submissions so no newsletter is sent out.

### Membership

Non-student membership in the SIAG is flat; student enrollment has
declined since 2010.  Compared to other SIAGs, SIAG LA has a larger
percentage of academic members, and a marginally smaller percentage of
female members.  The most academic members are affiliated with math
departments, though there are also many from computer science and
engineering.

## Open discussion

During the open floor session after Dan Sorensen's presentation, the
following issues came up.

### Conference venues

During the discussion, Volker Mehrmann mentioned that several years
ago during a SIAG LA business meeting, participants complained about
holding the meeting at expensive hotels.  In recent years, we have
returned to expensive hotels in Monterey and Atlanta, which he felt
was not a good idea.  Ilse Ipsen commented that holding conferences in
universities in the US is not cheap, and can be as expensive as a hotel.

### Increasing student membership

Charlie Van Loan asked for clarification about the reason for student
SIAG membership, and whether it crossed SIAG boundaries.  Dan Sorensen
replied that SIAM believes that at least part of the decline was due
to a procedural problem with renewal: students weren't aware of how
and when to renew.  Iain Duff asked how many attendees at the meeting
were students; nobody present was certain, though the Nancy Snell
thought the number was roughly 1/3.  Nick Higham asked whether all
available student travel awards were used; the answer is that 31
travel awards were made, 28 to students and 3 to early career
researchers.  Daniel Szyld pointed out that if any of the 28 are not
SIAG members, we should encourage them to sign up!  Michele Benzi
suggested that many conferences have a best student paper award to
encourage student participation, though this is more work for the
committee.

The SIAG officers are proposing a SIAG-LA related mini-posterium at
the upcoming annual meeting, which we hope will attract student
presenters as well as others.  We are also open to other ideas to
increase student membership and participation.

### SIAG-LA in SIAM News

Nick Higham asked about SIAM News articles related to numerical linear
algebra.  The answer was that we did not have a representative to SIAM
News.  Linda Thiel briefly pointed out that the SIAM News
representeative is not responsible for writing the articles; they need
to give ideas to the editorial staff, and perhaps suggest people to
write it.  Also, the contact may simply field questions from SIAM News
about whether an article might be of interest to the community.

Rosemary Renaut volunteered to serve as the SIAM News contact person
for the SIAG.

### Upcoming elections

There was a brief discussion of the SIAG LA elections, which occur
every three years in concert with the meetings.  Nick Higham observed
that the election cycle currently leads to a lack of continuity.  This
is something the SIAG LA officers were keenly aware of in this cycle,
and the plan is to create a document of upcoming tasks and deadlines
to help the next group of SIAG officers.

The SIAG LA elections are now open, but had not yet opened at the time
of the business meeting.  The slate is:

- Chair: Peter Benner and Jim Nagy
- Vice-Chair: Zhaojun Bai and Alison Ramage
- Program Director: Melina Freitag and Xiaoye Li
- Secretary: Jennifer Pestana and Raf Vandebril

The nominating committee was Bruce Hendrickson, Iain Duff, Ilse Ipsen,
Chen Greif, and Paul Van Dooren.
