---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-12-05
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



This month we are looking for your feedback on the future of the ISSNLA. Please do get in touch with your comments and suggeestions!

## CONTENTS

- [International SIAM Summer School on Numerical Linear Algebra (ISSNLA)](#nav0)
- [2018 SIAM Gene Golub SIAM Summer School](#nav1)
- [International Conference on Preconditioning Techniques for Scientific and Industrial Applications](#nav2)
- [Poster deadline extended for SIAM CSE 17](#nav3)
- [SAMSI Workshop on the Interface of Statistics and Optimization (WISO)](#nav4)
- [Graph Algorithm Building Blocks (GABB) 2017](#nav5)
- [Senior Numerical Analyst, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK](#nav6)
- [Postdoc positions in developing parallel sparse matrix algorithms](#nav7)
- [New Faculty Positions in Applied Math at Columbia](#nav8)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav9)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">International SIAM Summer School on Numerical Linear Algebra (ISSNLA)</a>

The SIAG/LA officers request feedback from members SIAG/LA on an issue 
regarding summer schools.

Unfortunately a rather lengthy background is needed, so please take 
some time to read this, and send feedback to Jim Nagy, 
<nagy@mathcs.emory.edu>.

There are two different SIAM summer schools that are of interest to 
the SIAG/LA members:

* Gene Golub SIAM Summer School (G2S3): <http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/>

* International SIAM Summer School on Numerical Linear Algebra (ISSNLA): <http://siags.siam.org/siagla/meetings/summer.html>

The purpose of ISSNLA, which was initiated in 2008, is to focus on 
Numerical Linear Algebra (NLA), with the idea that an ISSNLA would 
occur approximately every three years.

The G2S3 was initiated in 2010 and occurs every year.  It is not 
required to have an NLA focus, but often does.  Specifically: "If
there are two consecutive years without a school in numerical linear 
algebra, then in the following year preference will be given to a
proposal with a computational linear algebra theme, provided there is 
a meritorious proposal, but proposals in all areas will be considered."

Note that G2S3 comes with a substantial amount of funding 
(approximately $100,000), but in the case of ISSNLA it is up to the
organizers to secure funding.  However, it is often the case (2010, 
2013, and 2017) that the ISSNLA and G2S3 were formally paired, and so
the main source of funding for ISSNLA actually came from G2S3.  In 
addition, the 2015 G2S3 had a strong NLA focus.

With this background in mind, we would like to propose that the ISSNLA 
be formally discontinued.  Instead, we believe the SIAG/LA should
focus only on soliciting and backing G2S3 proposals of interest to 
SIAG/LA members.  If SIAG/LA members wish to submit a proposal to
S2G3, and would like to have formal backing of the SIAG/LA, then they 
must request this backing before the S2G3 submission deadline, so that
the SIAG/LA Officers have sufficient time to review all such requests.

Please send any comments about this proposal to Jim Nagy, <nagy@mathcs.emory.edu>.

Please also see the related posting in this digest regarding proposals for the 2018 S2G3.

The SIAG/LA Committee


---------------

## <a name="nav1">2018 SIAM Gene Golub SIAM Summer School</a>

Please see the following information about the 2018 SIAM Gene Golub SIAM Summer School.  The SIAG/LA would be interested in helping to
promote at most one proposal.  If you intend to submit a letter of intent, and would like backing of the SIAG/LA, please contact Melina
Freitag (SIAG/LA Program Director) or Jim Nagy (SIAG/LA Chair).

Call for Proposals: Gene Golub SIAM Summer School 2018

SIAM is calling for Letters of Intent proposing topics and organizers
for the 2018 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School (G2S3). Letters of Intent
in all areas of applied and computational mathematics will be
considered.

It is expected that the program will run two weeks for about 40
graduate students in 2018.  SIAM will contribute up to $109,200
towards the running of the summer school.

Information about the G2S3 program, including the composition of the
G2S3 committee, can be found at <www.siam.org/about/com_golub.php>.

Information about the 2017 G2S3 can be found at
<http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3> and the archives of earlier G2S3s can be
found at <http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/archive.php>. The deadline
for Letters of Intent is January 31, 2017. For more information see
<http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/summer_call.php>

Respectfully,

Chen Greif, Chair of the SIAM Committee on Gene Golub SIAM Summer School


---------------

## <a name="nav2">International Conference on Preconditioning Techniques for Scientific and Industrial Applications</a>

The 10th International Conference on Preconditioning Techniques for 
Scientific and Industrial Applications will take place on July 31 - 
August 2, 2017 at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Confirmed plenary speakers:  

* Michele Benzi, Emory University, USA  
* Jed Brown, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA   
* Jie Chen, IBM Research Center, USA  
* Eric Darve, Stanford University, USA    
* Tom Jonshovel, Schlumberger Abingdon Technology Centre, UK  
* Alison Ramage, Strathclyde University, UK  
* Sander Rhebergen, University of Waterloo, Canada  
* Nicole Spillane, Ecole Polytechnique, France  

Additional information can be found at <http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~greif/precon17>


---------------

## <a name="nav3">Poster deadline extended for SIAM CSE 17</a>

ADDITIONAL POSTERS ARE BEING ACCEPTED THROUGH 11:59 PM EST on December 12, 2016  
Contributed presentations in poster format are invited in all areas consistent with the conference themes. A poster format involves the use of visual aids for mounting on a 4' x 8' poster board. The posters will be displayed in a two-hour poster session during the day. To participate, each contributor must submit a title and a brief abstract not to exceed 1,500 characters including spaces.

Submissions are being accepted through 11:59 PM EST on December 12, 2016. Interested parties should submit the following information using the online submission site.

Presenting author: name, affiliation, e-mail address  
Each co-author: name, affiliation, e-mail address  
Poster title  
Brief Abstract (1,500 characters or less including spaces)  

Note: Extended deadline is for single poster submissions only. No additional minisymposia, minisymposteria or contributed lectures will be considered or acknowledged.  
Notification of acceptance will be sent by email on or before January 4, 2017.


---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://www.samsi.info/opt-wiso">SAMSI Workshop on the Interface of Statistics and Optimization (WISO)</a>
This workshop brings together pioneers in statistics and optimization. In one-hour lectures, they will highlight the breadth and depth of advances, cross-fertilization, and cutting-edge applications.

Confirmed speakers at this point:  

 * Yonina Eldar (Technion),  
 * Alex Gray (Skytree),  
 * Michael Jordan (UC Berkeley),  
 * Kenneth Lange (UCLA),   
 * Arkadi Nemorivski (Georgia Tech),  
 * Alex Shapiro (Georgia Tech),   
 * Martin Wainright (UC Berkeley),   
 * Margaret Wright (NYU Courant),   
 * Steve Wright (Wisconsin).

Workshop registration: <http://www.samsi.info/opt-wiso>
Application deadline: 16 December 2016  
Questions: email <opt@samsi.info>

---------------

## <a name="nav5"></a><a href="http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2017.html">Graph Algorithm Building Blocks (GABB) 2017</a>
An IEEE IPDPS 2017 Workshop

=== Scope and Goals ===

This workshop series started with the narrow goal of exploring the definition of a set of basic building blocks for graph algorithms (<http://graphblas.org>), analogous to the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) in numerical linear algebra. Over the years, our scope has expanded.  We've welcomed a wide range of papers into GABB covering graph computations with an emphasis on high-performance and parallel computing. We expect this trend to continue in 2017.

In particular, while we retain our focus on "building blocks" for graph computations (including those not based on linear algebra), we also welcome work that focuses on libraries and frameworks to support applications that use graph algorithms.

Our target audience is developers of graph algorithms, researchers in high-performance computing working on irregular applications, applied mathematicians working on fundamental algorithmic building blocks for graph computations, and application scientists using graphs in their computational work and data analysis.

=== Submission and Dates ===

Submitted manuscripts may not exceed ten (10) single-spaced double-column pages using 10-point size font on 8.5x11-inch pages (IEEE conference style), including figures, tables, and references (see IPDPS Call for Papers for more details). All papers will be peer-reviewed. Proceedings of the workshops are distributed at the conference and are submitted for inclusion in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library after the conference.

Important dates:  
Submissions due: January 15, 2017 EST 23:59pm  
Notification: February 15, 2017  
Final Camera-Ready Manuscript due: March 1, 2017  

- Workshop web page: <http://graphanalysis.org/workshop2017.html>  
- Submission page: <https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=gabb17>  

=== Program Committee ===

David A. Bader, Georgia Institute of Technology  
Ayd&#305;n Bulu&#231;, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (co-chair)  
Jonathan Berry, Sandia National Labs  
John Gilbert, UC Santa Barbara  
Vasia Kalavri, KTH Royal Institute of Technology  
Jeremy Kepner, MIT Lincoln  Labs  
Chris Long, US Department of Defense  
Andrew Lumsdaine, Pacific Northwest National Lab and University of Washington  
Tim Mattson, Intel Corp. (co-chair)  
Kamesh Madduri, Penn State University  
Henning Meyerhenke, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology  
John Owens, University of California, Davis  
Fabrizio Petrini, Inter Corp.  
Semih Salihoglu, University of Waterloo  
Edgar Solomonik, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign  
Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Senior Numerical Analyst, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK</a>

We have an opening for a senior researcher to join the Numerical
Analysis Group at the STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, near Oxford,
England. The Group's main focus is on topics relating to large-scale
numerical linear algebra and optimization.

The position will involve leading novel independent and
collaborative scientific research at an international level in an area
of computational numerical analysis that complements and contributes to
the work of the Group.  You will be expected to be responsible for
more junior team members. The role will also
contribute to developing, supporting and maintaining software within one
or more of the Group's key software projects (notably HSL, SPRAL and
GALAHAD).

Further responsibilities will include developing new national and
international research collaborations, working with colleagues on the
development and expansion of projects involving STFC scientific
facilities (notably the ISIS pulsed neutron and muon source, Diamond
Light Source and RAL Space).

For further details, please visit
<http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AVB324/senior-numerical-analysis-researcher/>
or contact us (<nick.gould@stfc.ac.uk>,<jennifer.scott@stfc.ac.uk>) by
email for particular queries. The closing date for applications is 08
January 2017, with interviews scheduled on a date to be confirmed.
However, we encourage early applications as some candidates may be
interviewed before this date.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Postdoc positions in developing parallel sparse matrix algorithms</a>

Berkeley Lab's Scalable Solvers Group in the Computational Research
Division has a couple of immediate openings for postdoctoral fellows
to design and implement highly parallel sparse matrix algorithms
targeted for the exascale. The candidate will participate in projects
to develop next-generation sparse factorization based algebraic solvers
and preconditioners, to integrate the new solvers into other higher
level algebraic solvers and high-end simulation codes, to analyze
algorithmic complexity and performance profile of the new algorithms
and codes, and to optimize the codes on emerging supercomputers built
from multi- and manycore processors.

Please follow the link below to see more details and to apply online:
<https://lbl.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=83138>

---------------

## <a name="nav8">New Faculty Positions in Applied Math at Columbia</a>

Multiple faculty appointments in Applied Mathematics to begin in Fall of 2017 at Columbia:

1. Chu Assistant Professorship (a limited term faculty appointment, with one course teaching 
per semester, for a recent PhD with extraordinary promise in research).  
2. A newly created Lecturer in Applied Mathematics (two-years initial term, with possible 
long-term re-appointment,  two courses teaching per semester, mainly in charge of a new 
course on multivariable calculus for engineers and applied scientists, excellent teaching is 
expected and scholarly research is encouraged).   

Details can be found at <https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/ColumbiaUniversity>.  
Applicants can consult <http://www.apam.columbia.edu for more info on the department>.  

Additional postdoc appointments in applied mathematics are available in connection with 
externally funded group/individual research projects. Interested candidates may contact 
members of the applied mathematics faculty for details.

Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer --Race/Gender/Disability/Veteran

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jan 02, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
