---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-09-05
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



In the digest this month are several conference updates and upcoming deadlines.

## CONTENTS

- [2017 Householder Symposium](#nav0)
- [2020 Householder Symposium](#nav1)
- [CSC16, SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing, October 10--12, 2016](#nav2)
- [International Conference On Preconditioning Techniques For Scientific And Industrial Applications (Preconditioning 2017)](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">2017 Householder Symposium</a>

The Householder Symposium XX on Numerical Linear Algebra will be held
at The Inn at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, VA, USA, 18-23 June 2017.

Web page: <http://www.math.vt.edu/HHXX/>  
Application deadline: 31 October 2016  
Notification of acceptance: 15 February 2017  

Attendance at the meeting is by invitation only. Applications are
welcome from researchers in numerical linear algebra, matrix theory,
and related areas such as optimization, differential equations, signal
processing, and control. Each attendee will be given the opportunity
to present a talk or a poster. Some talks will be plenary lectures,
while others will be shorter presentations arranged in parallel
sessions.

The Symposium is very informal, with the intermingling of young and
established researchers a priority. Participants are expected to
attend the entire meeting. It is expected that partial support will be
available for some students, early career participants, and
participants from countries with limited resources.

The sixteenth Householder Award for the best PhD thesis in numerical
linear algebra (PhD earned between 1 January 2014, and 31 December
2016) will be presented. Nominations for the Householder Award are due
by 31 January 2017.

The Householder Symposium takes place in cooperation with the Society
for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) and the SIAM Activity
Group on Linear Algebra.


---------------

## <a name="nav1">2020 Householder Symposium</a>

The Householder Committee seeks a team to organize the 2020
Householder Symposium on Numerical Linear Algebra.  The deadline for
submitting a proposal is 1 April 2017.
  
Guidelines for preparing a proposal can be found at:
<http://www.math.vt.edu/HHXX/HH_Meeting_Proposal_Guidelines.pdf>

Additional questions, and completed proposals can be sent to:

Jim Nagy  
Chair, Householder Committee  
<jnagy@emory.edu>


---------------

## <a name="nav2">CSC16, SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing, October 10--12, 2016</a>


Dear Colleagues,

CSC16, the Seventh SIAM International Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing, will be held in Albuquerque, NM, USA, Oct 10-12, 2016, with a welcome reception on the evening of October 9.  The workshop website (<http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16>) has recently been updated with various new information -- here a few highlights/reminders to keep in mind as you make or finalize your travel plans: 

- Registration is open. A conference dinner (on October 10 or 11) is planned and details will be made available soon.   
- Hotel reservation is also open. We have reserved a block of rooms at Albuquerque Marriott, the designated hotel for the workshop, at an extremely attractive group rate for the days October 9--12. We strongly encourage attendees to reserve rooms early as the room block at the group rate is first-come, first-served. If you wish to arrive before October 9 to see the famous Balloon Fiesta, we have secured a special rate at two other hotels for the days October 7--8. Unfortunately, the workshop hotel is already sold out during the balloon fiesta (like most major  hotels). 
- The workshop will end by 3PM (Mountain) on October 12, so there is a possibility of catching a late afternoon flight out of ABQ for your return trip.  
- A list of accepted papers and talks has been posted at the workshop's website. As a new feature, CSC16 will have a proceedings published by SIAM for selected 10-page papers.  

We look forward to seeing you in Albuquerque.  

Best regards,  

 Erik Boman and Assefaw Gebremedhin  
 Co-chairs, SIAM CSC16  


---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a>International Conference On Preconditioning Techniques For Scientific And Industrial Applications (Preconditioning 2017)

July 31-August 2, 2017  
Vancouver, Canada

This conference is a sequel to nine successful meetings on
preconditioning (one every two years), which address complex issues
related to the solution of general sparse matrix problems in
large-scale applications and in industrial settings. The goal of the
conference is to exchange ideas on recent developments in
preconditioning techniques for sparse linear systems of equations, and
to a lesser extent for eigenvalue problems. A forthcoming announcement
will provide details on focus areas, paper submission, important
dates, program committee members, and invited speakers.

Chen Greif, University of British Columbia  
Esmond Ng, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  
Yousef Saad, University of Minnesota  
Andy Wathen, Oxford University

---------------


## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Oct 03, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.