---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-11-07
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



With the end of 2016 upon us, this month the digest features a number of job ads, and information on upcoming conferences.

## CONTENTS

- [New NSF CyberTraining Solicitation and Webinar (NSF 17-507) + ACI-ANNOUNCE Mailing List](#nav0)
- [CfP MOPTA 2016 - The Modeling and Optimization Theory and Applications (MOPTA) conference proceedings](#nav1)
- [SIAM UKIE Annual Meeting 2017](#nav2)
- [Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference 2017 (PASC17)](#nav3)
- [267th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis](#nav4)
- [SIAM Conference on Control & Its Applications (CT17)](#nav5)
- [Associate Professor Position in Computation Mathematics at CU Boulder](#nav6)
- [Faculty Positions, Mathematics & Statistics, Texas Tech University, Fall 2017](#nav7)
- [Postdoc Position, John von Neumann Fellow, Sandia National Labs](#nav8)
- [SAMSI Deputy Director position](#nav9)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav10)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">New NSF CyberTraining Solicitation and Webinar (NSF 17-507) + ACI-ANNOUNCE Mailing List</a>

The Division of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (ACI) is pleased to announce a cross-cutting solicitation on Training-based Workforce Development for Advanced Cyberinfrastructure  (CyberTraining) - see details below, including a webinar on this solicitation on Nov 10, 2-3 pm EDT.

ACI has created the ACI-ANNOUNCE mailing list for important news and other announcements of relevance to the ACI community.  To subscribe to the ACI ANNOUNCE mailing list, send an email to: <ACI-ANNOUNCE-subscribe-request@listserv.nsf.gov>.  

Please disseminate this to your students and colleagues.  For further information on the CyberTraining solicitation, please contact me at <sprasad@nsf.gov>.

Regards,

Sushil K Prasad
Program Director, CISE/ACI
National Science Foundation

Training-based Workforce Development for Advanced Cyberinfrastructure - CyberTraining 
(NSF 17-507)


Program Solicitation: 

The overarching goal of this program is to prepare, nurture and grow the national scientific workforce for creating, utilizing, and supporting advanced cyberinfrastructure (CI) that enables cutting-edge science and engineering and contributes to the Nation's overall economic competitiveness and security.  This solicitation calls for developing innovative, scalable training programs to address the emerging needs and unresolved bottlenecks in scientific and engineering workforce development of targeted, multidisciplinary communities, at the postsecondary level and beyond, leading to transformative changes in the state of workforce preparedness for advanced CI in the short and long terms.  In the short term, the projects shall result in innovative, scalable, informal training models and pilot activities, complementing and leveraging the state of art in curricular offerings, material, and best practices in academia and elsewhere.  In the long term, the projects should contribute to the larger goals of an educational ecosystem enabling "Computational and Data Science for All," with an understanding of computation as the third pillar and data-driven science as the fourth pillar of the scientific discovery process.

There are three tracks for submissions:

(i) CI Professionals (CIP): aimed at the training and career pathway development of research cyberinfrastructure and professional staff who develop, deploy, manage, and support effective use of advanced CI for research;

(ii) Domain science and engineering (DSE): aimed primarily at the communities of CI Contributors and sophisticated CI Users, and aligned with the research and education priorities of the participating domain directorates; and

(iii) Computational and data science literacy (CDL): aimed at the CI User community at the undergraduate level.

The CyberTraining program includes all divisions within the Directorates of Engineering (ENG), Geosciences (GEO), and Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS), as well as the Divisions of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (ACI) and Computing and Communication Foundation (CCF) in the Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE), and the Division of Graduate Education (DGE) in the Directorate for Education and Human Resources (EHR).

Prospective PIs are strongly encouraged to contact the Cognizant Program Officers (POs) in CISE/ACI and in the participating directorate/division(s) relevant to the proposal at least a month in advance of the submission deadline to ascertain whether the focus and budget of the proposed activities are appropriate for this solicitation, and include the names of POs consulted in their Project Summary. 

 Website: <https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=505342>


 CyberTraining Solicitation Webinar - Nov 10, 2-3 pm EDT 

The cognizant Program Officers will host a webinar on the CyberTraining Solicitation.  The webinar will cover the elements of this solicitation, including objectives, award tracks, and submission requirements.  There will be a question and answer session following the discussion of the program solicitation.  Attendees will need to register for this webinar by Wednesday November 9, 2016. (Registration information is accessible just below the webinar agenda on the web site noted below) 

Website: <https://www.nsf.gov/events/event_summ.jsp?cntn_id=190179&org=CISE>


---------------

## <a name="nav1">CfP MOPTA 2016 - The Modeling and Optimization Theory and Applications (MOPTA) conference proceedings</a>

Dear colleagues,

[Apologies for cross-posting.]

MOPTA aims at bringing together a diverse group of people from both discrete and continuous optimization, working on both theoretical and applied aspects.   
We would like to invite you to submit your paper to MOPTA 2016 conference proceedings.
You can review past MOPTA proceedings at:  
<http://www.springer.com/us/book/9783319236988>  
<http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4614-3924-0>  
<http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4614-8987-0>  

IMPORTANT DATES  
Dec 16, 2016: submission of papers  
Jan 1, 2017: assigning papers to reviewers  
March 1, 2017: reviews due  
March 15, 2017: acceptance/rejection decision  
May 15, 2017: revised version due  

SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS  

Your paper can be submitted on following website: <https://ocs.springer.com/prom/home/MOPTA2016>  
LaTeX template and instructions for authors can be found here: <https://www.springer.com/gp/authors-editors/conference-proceedings/conference-proceedings-guidelines>

Sincerely, Martin Takac
on behalf of the MOPTA-2016 editors


---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://maths.manchester.ac.uk/siam-ukie/meetings.html">SIAM UKIE Annual Meeting 2017</a>
The 21st Annual Meeting of the SIAM UKIE section will be hosted
at the University of Strathclyde, on Thursday, 12th of January 2017.
The meeting features three keynote, three early career speakers,
and a poster session (with the chance of winning a Best Poster Prize).
Some travel support is available for students with an accepted poster
presentation.

Registration is free of charge and open until 8th of December 2016.
For more details and the registration form, please visit  

<http://maths.manchester.ac.uk/siam-ukie/meetings.html>  

Please also invite your colleagues and students to this meeting!

---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://www.pasc17.org">Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference 2017 (PASC17)</a>
PASC17 Conference: Papers, Minisymposia and Posters Submissions

The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is pleased to
announce that submissions will open on October 25 for the PASC17
Conference, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM). Submissions are invited for papers, minisymposia and poster
presentations. PASC17 will be held from June 26 to 28, 2017, at the
Palazzo dei Congressi in Lugano, Switzerland.

PASC17 Conference  
June 26-28, 2017  
Palazzo dei Congressi  
Lugano, Switzerland  
<http://www.pasc17.org>

The PASC Conference is an interdisciplinary conference in high-
performance computing that brings together domain science, applied
mathematics and computer science - where computer science is focused
on enabling the realization of scientific computation.

TARGET AUDIENCE  
The PASC17 Conference invites participants from academia, research
laboratories and industry to discuss the state of the art in
computational science in the context of high-performance computing.
The conference is an opportunity for researchers in computational
science to present innovative research that can help address societal
challenges of today and the future.

PROGRAM  
The PASC Conference offers three days of stimulating and thought-
provoking technical sessions, including keynote presentations,
minisymposia, peer-reviewed papers, panels and poster sessions. The
conference is co-sponsored by ACM SIGHPC, and papers are published in
the ACM Digital Library.

CONTRIBUTIONS  
Researchers from academia and industry are encouraged to participate
and present their research in the form of papers, minisymposia and/or
posters. PASC17 welcomes submissions in the following scientific fields:  
- Climate and Weather  
- Computer Science and Mathematics  
- Emerging Domains (Special topic: HPC and Precision Medicine)  
- Engineering  
- Life Sciences  
- Materials Science and Chemistry  
- Physics  
- Solid Earth Dynamics  

PAPERS  
The goal of the PASC papers initiative is to advance the quality of
formal scientific communication between the relative disciplines of
computational science and engineering. Some disciplinary communities
traditionally publish in major, annual conferences, others primarily
in disciplinary journals, neither read regularly by the other
communities. PASC papers will enable the interdisciplinary exchange
in a manner bridging scientific publishing cultures and useful to the
individual and community research goals. Full submission guidelines
are provided through a separate call and are available
at <http://www.pasc17.org/submission>.

Deadlines for paper submissions:  
25 October:  Online submission will open  
12 December: Submissions close  
7 February: First review notifications  
1 March: Revised submissions close  
11 April: Acceptance notifications  

MINISYMPOSIA and POSTERS  
Guidelines regarding the submission process and access to the online
submission system are available at <http://www.pasc17.org/submission>.

Deadlines for minisymposium submissions:  
25 October:  Online submission will open  
27 November: Submissions close  
10 January: Acceptance notifications  

Deadlines for poster submissions:  
25 October:  Online submission will open  
9 February: Submissions close  
28 March: Acceptance notifications  

CONFERENCE CO-CHAIRS  
Olaf Schenk (Universita della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
Horst Simon (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA)  

PAPERS CO-CHAIRS  
Jack Wells (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA)  
Torsten Hoefler (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)  

MINISYMPOSIA AND POSTERS CO-CHAIRS  
Rolf Krause (Universita della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
Stefan Goedecker (University of Basel, Switzerland)  

MINISYMPOSIA TRACK CHAIRS
Rolf Krause (Universita della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
Stefan Goedecker (University of Basel, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Climate & Weather:
Peter Bauer (European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, UK)  
- Track Chair Computer Science & Applied Mathematics:
Bastien Chopard (University of Geneva, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Emerging Domains in HPC:
Martin Weiser (Zuse Institute, Germany)  
- Track Chair Engineering:
Michael Puso (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA)  
- Track Chair Life Sciences:
Igor Pivkin (Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Materials Science and Chemistry:
Anatole von Lilienfeld (University of Basel, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Physics:
Lucio Mayer (University of Zurich, Switzerland)  
- Track Chair Solid Earth Dynamics:
Dimitri Komatitsch (University of Aix-Marseille, France)  

Please refer to PASC17 website for further information about the
conference and the supporting organization at <http://www.pasc17.org>.

---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://www.naconf.org.uk">267th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis</a>
Registration is now open for the 27th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis  
June 27-30, 2017, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland

This long established conference is open to all researchers in the field, and you are invited to contribute a talk on your current work. Young researchers and PhD students will find the environment particularly welcoming. We are soliciting proposals for mini-symposia: these can be submitted on-line.

The following distinguished researchers have accepted invitations for
plenary lectures at the conference: Don Estep, Philip Gill, David Gleich, David Keyes, Christian Lubich, Ilaria Perugia, Gerlind Plonka-Hoch, Valeria Simoncini, Andrew Stuart, Endre S&uuml;li, Fran&ccedil;oise Tisseur, Karin Tornberg.

The A R Mitchell lecture will be given by Andrew Stuart and the Fletcher-Powell lecture by Philip Gill.

Further information and on-line registration may be found at
<http://www.naconf.org.uk>

---------------

## <a name="nav5"></a><a href="http://www.siam.org/meetings/ct17/">SIAM Conference on Control & Its Applications (CT17)</a>
Location:  
David Lawrence Convention Center (DLCC)  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA

Dates:  
July 10 - 12, 2017

Conference Co-Chairs  
Wei Kang, Naval Postgraduate School, USA  
Qing Zhang, University of Georgia, USA

Organizing Committee  
Piermarco Cannarsa, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Italy  
Eduardo Cerpa, Universidad T&eacute;cnica Federico Santa Mar&iacute;a, Chile  
Francois Dufour, Universit&eacute; de Bordeaux and Inria Bordeaux Sud-Ouest, France  
Fariba Fahroo, DARPA, USA (AN17 liaison)  
Leonid Fridman, Universidad Nacional Aut&oacute;noma de M&eacute;xico, Mexico  
Tryphon T. Georgiou, University of California, Irvine, USA  
Michael Hinze, University of Hamburg, Germany  
Naira Hovakimyan, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA  
Urszula Ledzewicz, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, USA  
Hai Lin, University of Notre Dame, USA  
Sonia Mart&iacute;nez, University of California, San Diego, USA  
Amit Surana, United Technologies Research Center, USA  
Mario Sznaier, Northeastern University, USA  

Program Committee Co-chairs
Jean-Pierre Barbot, ENSEA, France  
Ruihua Liu, University of Dayton, USA  

The Call for Presentations for this conference is available at:
<http://www.siam.org/meetings/ct17/>.

Twitter hashtag:
\#SIAMCT17

### Deadlines
 
SUBMISSION DEADLINES  
January 4, 2017:  Minisymposium Proposal Submissions  
February 1, 2017: Contributed Lecture, Minisymposia, Poster and Minisymposteria Presentation Abstracts  
February 1, 2017:  Full Paper for Consideration in Proceedings (Optional)*  

TRAVEL FUND APPLICATION DEADLINE  
January 20, 2017: SIAM Student Travel Award and Post-doc/Early Career Travel Award Applications  


Please visit <http://www.siam.org/meetings/ct17/submissions.php>  for detailed submission information.

For additional information, contact the SIAM Conference Department (<meetings@siam.org>).

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Associate Professor Position in Computation Mathematics at CU Boulder</a>

ASSOCIATE OR ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS

The Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Colorado at Boulder invites applications for a faculty position at the Associate or Assistant Professor level to begin August 2017. The position is in the area of computational mathematics and scientific computing, with a particular emphasis on numerical methods for PDEs and their applications. However, candidates in all fields of Computational Mathematics are encouraged to apply, and exceptional candidates in all fields of Applied Mathematics may be considered. All candidates are expected to have a strong record of research accomplishments, and excellent communication and teaching skills. For a tenured appointment at the Associate Professor level, a commensurate record of research and mentoring/teaching accomplishments is required, and proven success in attracting external funding is expected. Review of applications will begin October 17, 2016, and will continue until the position has been filled.

The Applied Mathematics Department has significant research efforts in computational mathematics, nonlinear mathematics including nonlinear dynamics and waves, mathematical biology, physical applied mathematics, probability, and statistics. For more information see <http://www.colorado.edu/amath/>.

The University of Colorado at Boulder offers a rich research environment, with numerous inter-disciplinary initiatives in the physical and life sciences. The University is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to building a diverse workforce. We encourage applications from women, racial and ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities and veterans. Alternative formats of this ad can be provided upon request for individuals with disabilities by contacting the ADA Coordinator at hr-ada@colorado.edu. See www.colorado.edu/ArtsSciences/Jobs/ for additional information.

The following application materials are expected: (1) Letter of Application. (2) CV/Resume. (3) Statement on Research. (4) Statement on Teaching. (5) Names of four academic references. Applicants with a well established track record have the option to ask that references be contacted only after an initial review. Applications are accepted online at:

<https://cu.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?job=06674&lang=en>

For further information, please send inquiries to: <am_jobs@colorado.edu>

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Faculty Positions, Mathematics & Statistics, Texas Tech University, Fall 2017</a>

The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech University invites applications for six tenure-track positions beginning Fall 2017. While preference will be given to junior faculty candidates for the rank of assistant professor, candidates with very strong records of research productivity who will bring externally sponsored research to Texas Tech will be considered for associate or full professor ranks. The department seeks candidates who will be engaged in nationally visible scholarship, establish externally-funded research programs, interact with the existing research groups, participate in interdisciplinary collaborations and service, involve graduate students in their research, and show excellence in teaching at the graduate and undergraduate levels. A Ph.D. degree in mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, or a related area, at the time of appointment, is required. A demonstrated record of peer reviewed publication is expected. Senior applicants are expected to provide a strong record of scholarly research, teaching effectiveness, and professional service.

Candidates should apply at <http://www.texastech.edu/careers/> using the appropriate requisition number, as follows: 1). Mathematical sciences - requisition \#7946BR; 2). Computational mathematics - requisition \#7947BR; 3). Biomathematics - requisition \#7948BR; 4). Statistics - requisition \#7949BR.

The research fields of traditional interest in the department corresponding to these four areas include, respectively: i). algebraic and differential geometry and topology, complex analysis, number theory; ii). computational applications of partial differential equations, optimization, numerical linear algebra, numerical analysis, and scientific computing/software; iii). population dynamics, infectious diseases, ecotoxicology, immunology, oncology, biomechanics, neuroscience; iv). biostatistics, statistical genetics, stochastic processes, functional data analysis, Bayesian statistics, nonparametric statistics, and image analysis.

Applicants are expected to submit a letter of application along with a completed AMS standard cover sheet, current CV, research and teaching statements. In addition to the mandated online application, applicants must have three reference letters e-mailed to <misty.rangel@ttu.edu>. Review of applications will begin in Fall 2016. Applications will be accepted until the position is filled, with those received prior to January 15, 2017, assured full consideration.

As an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer, Texas Tech University is dedicated to the goal of building a culturally diverse faculty committed to teaching and working in a multicultural environment. We actively encourage applications from all those who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community at Texas Tech University. The university welcomes applications from minorities, women, veterans, persons with disabilities, and dual-career couples.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Postdoc Position, John von Neumann Fellow, Sandia National Labs</a>

The Center for Computing Research and the Computer Sciences and Information Systems Center at Sandia National 
Laboratories invite outstanding candidates to apply for the 2017 John von Neumann Postdoctoral Research Fellowship in 
Computational Science.  This prestigious fellowship is supported by the Applied Mathematics Research Program in the U.S. 
Department of Energy's Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research.  The fellowship provides an exceptional 
opportunity for innovative research in computational mathematics and scientific computing on advanced computing
architectures with application to a broad range of science and engineering problems of national importance.  Applicants 
must have or soon receive a Ph.D. in applied/computational mathematics or related computational science and engineering 
disciplines.  Applicants must have less than three years of postdoctoral experience.  This appointment is for one year, 
with a possible renewal for a second year, and includes a highly competitive salary, moving expenses and a generous 
professional travel allowance.

Applications will be reviewed upon receipt. Complete applications received by December 1, 2016 will receive full 
consideration; the position will remain open until filled.

For more information, including application instructions, please see our web page at <http://www.cs.sandia.gov/VN_Web_Page/>.

---------------

## <a name="nav9">SAMSI Deputy Director position</a>

The Statistical and Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI)  
invites applications for the position of Deputy Director for a term of 
up to three years beginning July 1, 2017.

SAMSI (<http://www.samsi.info/>) is one of eight mathematical sciences 
institutes funded by the National Science Foundation. The Deputy 
Director will be a distinguished researcher who will provide scientific
direction to the Institute and oversight of the SAMSI grant, and who 
will work closely with the Director on all aspects of the Institute's 
oversight and program activities.  The Deputy Director will also be 
strongly encouraged to pursue his/her personal research in conjunction 
with the SAMSI programs or independently.

SAMSI is managed by a Directorate which is comprised of five members: 
the Director, the Deputy Director, two part time Associate Directors and 
the Director of Operations.  The Director and Deputy Director form the 
executive side of the Directorate and are responsible for the 
administration of programs, human resources and personnel issues, 
financial operation and infrastructure.  Together with the other members 
of the Directorate, they also share the responsibilities of the 
selection, development and implementation of SAMSI programs.

The appointment will be made as a member of the research faculty at 
North Carolina State University. Rank and salary will be commensurate 
with the candidate's experience and qualifications. The candidate must 
have a PhD in mathematics, statistics or a related data science field, 
excellent management skills and research record.  Proven administrative
experience is an asset.

Informal inquiries may be made to the Director, Richard Smith 
(<rls@samsi.info>, 919-685-9352).  Interested candidates should apply at 
<https://jobs.ncsu.edu>.   Review of applications will begin November 15,
2016, and will continue until the position is filled. Women and members
of underrepresented groups are especially encouraged to apply.

---------------

## <a name="nav10">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Dec 05, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.