---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-02-01
author: Jennifer Pestana
comments: true
---



I'm very pleased to be your new SIAG/LA 
secretary. Danny, James, Francoise and David have done an 
excellent job of steering the SIAG over the past three years, 
and the new committee would like to sincerely thank them for 
their hard work.  


## CONTENTS

- [SIAG/LA Twitter account](#nav0)
- [SIAG/LA sponsored minisymposia and miniposterium at SIAM Annual Meeting](#nav1)
- [Third Workshop on Mining Networks and Graphs: A Big Data Analytic Challenge (MNG2016)](#nav2)
- [5th IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation](#nav3)
- [Postdoc position in dimension reduction for uncertainty quantification](#nav4)
- [Postdoctoral Opening, Sandia Natl Labs, Livermore, CA](#nav5)
- [Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures (Job ID: 652198)](#nav6)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav7)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">SIAG/LA Twitter account</a>

SIAG/LA has a Twitter account! Follow us @siagla to hear about 
upcoming meetings, research and other linear algebra news. 

We are always looking for ways to better serve the linear algebra 
community, so if you have any ideas please don't hesitate to get 
in touch. 


---------------

## <a name="nav1">SIAG/LA sponsored minisymposia and miniposterium at SIAM Annual Meeting</a>

We are pleased to announce that this year's SIAM Annual meeting 
in Boston (July 11-15, 2016) will feature a Linear Algebra Track. 
The following minisymposia and miniposterium within the track 
will be sponsored by SIAG/LA. 

### Minisymposia  
- David Bindel (Cornell) and Ilse Ipsen (NC State):  
In honor of Charlie Van Loan's retirement

- Fernando Guevarra Vasquez (Utah), Alexander Mamonov (Houston), Roberto Remis, and Mikhail Zaslavsky (Schlumberger):  
Model Reduction Approaches in Wavefield Simulations and Imaging 
Part 1: Simulations  
Model Reduction Approaches in Wavefield Simulations and Imaging 
Part 2: Imaging

- Misha Kilmer (Tufts):  
Inverse problems and imaging

- Boris Kramer (MIT) and Joshua Proctor (MIT):  
Data-based approaches towards optimal control of complex systems

- Yuanzhe Xi (Minnesota):  
Innovative Algorithms For Large-Scale Eigenvalue Solutions

### Minisymposterium
- Nicholas J. Higham and Francoise Tisseur:  
Algorithms and Software in Numerical Linear Algebra


---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://staff.vbi.vt.edu/maleq/MNG2016">Third Workshop on Mining Networks and Graphs: A Big Data Analytic Challenge (MNG2016)</a>
Networks are emerging as a common language to model a wide variety of systems in life sciences, engineering, and social sciences. Real-world applications give rise to networks that are unstructured and often comprised of several components. Furthermore, they can support multiple dynamical processes that shape the network over time. The workshop will focus on processing and mining large-scale networks and is targeted for researchers and practitioners interested in data mining, machine learning, massive data analytics, network science, social networks and high performance computing in its broadest sense. Both theoreticians as well as practitioners, including system builders and individuals applying network analytic methods in application domains will be benefited from this workshop.

Papers are invited on topics including, but not limited to, the following:

- Network Analytics
- Sequential, parallel distributed methods for computing structural properties of networks
- Big data and networks
- Parallel and distributed simulations of contagion processes over networks
- Provable algorithms, rigorous heuristics for structural and dynamic analysis of networks
- Empirical analysis of methods
- Linear algebra and numerical analysis for mining networks
- Fusion of heterogeneous data sources into a graph
- Scalable heterogeneous graph stream mining
- Network Contagion, Control and Optimization
- diffusion of information, innovations, ideas, beliefs over networks
- emergence of norms
- interventions to prevent contagion
- influence maximization
- Inference of network structure, contagions and pathways
- Game Theory in Social Networks and Social Contagion
- influence maximization
- influence blocking maximization game
- other game-theoretic approaches
- Network Modeling
- exponential random graph models
- stochastic actor models
- network evolution models, etc.
- Practical Applications of Networks
- Real-world applications of networks in health, marketing, online media
- Case studies in social behavioral and economic sciences
- Description of large-scale systems to address network science problems
- Social network analysis
- Biological network analysis
- Computer network analysis for cybersecurity

The full-day workshop will feature: invited talks, contributed talks, and a short session and/or a panel discussion on open problems and directions for future research. Papers that describe original and ongoing research as well as those that describe systems and tools are solicited.

### Important Dates

Paper submissions due: January 29, 2016  
Author notification: February 8, 2016  
Camera-ready versions: February 13, 2016  
For more information and submission instructions, please visit <http://staff.vbi.vt.edu/maleq/MNG2016>.

---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://www.ima.org.uk/conferences/conferences_calendar/5th_ima_conference_on_numerical_linear_algebra_and_optimisation.cfm.html">5th IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation</a>
University of Birmingham, UK  
7-9 September 2016  
http://tinyurl.com/IMANLAO2016  

The IMA and the University of Birmingham are pleased to announce the
Fifth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization. The
meeting is co-sponsored by SIAM, whose members will receive the IMA
members' registration rate.

The success of modern codes for large-scale optimization is heavily
dependent on the use of effective tools of numerical linear
algebra. On the other hand, many problems in numerical linear algebra
lead to linear, nonlinear or semidefinite optimization problems. The
purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers from both
communities and to find and communicate points and topics of common
interest.

### CONFERENCE TOPICS
Direct and iterative methods for large sparse
linear systems. Eigenvalue computation and optimization. Large-scale
nonlinear and semidefinite programming. Effect of round-off errors,
stopping criteria, embedded iterative procedures. Optimization issues
for matrix polynomials. Fast matrix computations. Compressed/sparse
sensing. PDE-constrained optimization. Distributed computing and
optimization. Applications and real time optimization.

### INVITED SPEAKERS
- Tim Davis 
- Anders Forsgren 
- Andreas Frommer 
- Jacek Gondzio 
- Laura Grigori 
- Jennifer Scott 
- Lieven Vandenberghe

### IMPORTANT DATES
Mini-symposium proposals and contributed talks are invited on all
aspects of numerical linear algebra and optimization. Mini-symposium
proposals should be submitted to conferences@ima.org.uk by 31 March
2016\. A mini-symposium is limited to at most two sessions on a single
topic (maximum eight speakers). Organisers will be advised of
acceptance by 11 April 2016\. Contributed talks and mini-symposia talks
will be accepted on the basis of a one page extended abstract which
should be submitted by 30 April 2016 by e-mail to
conferences@ima.org.uk. Authors will be advised of acceptance by 31
May 2016\. A book of abstracts will be made available to delegates at
the conference.

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Postdoc position in dimension reduction for uncertainty quantification</a>

There is an immediate opening for a postdoc in Professor Paul Constantine's research group at Colorado School of Mines' Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics. The position is part of a DARPA-funded project in collaboration with Stanford, University of Michigan, and Sandia National Labs on methods for uncertainty quantification in large-scale simulations. We are looking for someone with experience and interest in dimension reduction for large-scale uncertainty quantification and design. 

Qualifications: (i) PhD in computational mathematics or related discipline, (ii) experience with uncertainty quantification techniques, (iii) familiarity with high performance computing and large-scale simulation models

Compensation: 55k/year plus benefits

Term: one year renewable up to two years

Applicants should submit a CV and a research statement via Mathjobs at
<https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/jobs/8477>

Send questions to Paul Constantine at `paul.constantine@mines.edu`.

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Postdoctoral Opening, Sandia Natl Labs, Livermore, CA</a>

Postdoctoral Appointee - Scientific Computing (Job ID: 652197)  
Sandia National Labs, Livermore, CA

The Data Science & Cyber Analytics Department has an opening for a postdoctoral researcher in scientific computing, with an emphasis on data-intensive numerical computing on parallel computing systems. The goal will be to develop and implement high-performance parallel tensor-based method for compression of large-scale scientific data sets, leading to fundamental advances for Sandia's customers and sponsors in the U.S. Department of Energy and other government agencies. The successful applicant will be expected to conduct innovative research, to develop open-source software, to present his or her findings at leading conferences and workshops, and to publish his or her results in leading journals. This postdoctoral position is for motivated and enthusiastic individuals with a background in computer science, applied mathematics, or related areas.

Minimum Qualifications: (1) Ph.D. in computer science, applied mathematics, scientific computing, or a related area, with a strong record of academic performance; (2) software development competence in C++ or a related language; (3) evidence of relevant research expertise in the form of technical publications, presentations, software, and/or knowledge of applications.

Desired Qualifications: (1) High-performance computing experience; (2) expertise in one or more numerical linear algebra, numerical optimization, data analysis, or statistics; (3) a background in solving practical problems in science and engineering that involve encounters with real-world data; and (4) evidence of professional service to the community, such as engagement in student service activities or seminar/workshop organization.

This position does not currently require a Department of Energy (DOE)-granted security clearance.

For more information, go to <http://jobs.sandia.gov> and search for Job ID 652197.

You can also click the following link directly:
<https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_APP_SCHJOB.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=652197&PostingSeq=1>

Please drop me a note if you apply.

Best wishes,
Tammy

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures (Job ID: 652198)</a>

Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures (Job ID: 652198)  
Sandia National Labs, Albuquerque, NM

The Computational Mathematics Department is seeking a Postdoctoral Appointee with a focus on Solvers for Emerging Architectures.

Responsibilities include, but are not limited to (1) Conduct leading-edge research in Algebraic Multigrid (AMG) methods for advanced architectures in support of coupled multi-physics applications, 

(2) Software development and numerical experimentation, (3) Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team and to thrive in an expanding, fast-paced technical environment, (4) Collaborate with other 
staff members, (5) Travel as needed to support ongoing projects.

The Post-Doctoral Appointee Program is designed to recruit outstanding Ph.D. applicants to assist a line organization in meeting its mission objectives and to provide a professional technical work environment for the employee. The Ph.D. must have been conferred within five years prior to employment. These assignments are for a one-year period, with the option at management's discretion to serve no more than five additional one-year assignments.

Minimum Qualifications: (1) Ph.D. in physics, engineering, computer science, mathematics, or a related area received within 5 years prior to employment, (2) Demonstrated expertise in high performance numerical linear algebra, including parallel iterative solvers and/or multilevel preconditioners, (3) Research experience as evidenced by presentations, technical publications, released software, and/or work with applications

Desired Qualifications: (1) Strong C++ software development skills and experience utilizing component software for scientific software development, (2) Experience with Python and/or Matlab, (3) Experience with parallel programming such as MPI, OpenMP, CUDA, and threaded programming models, (4) Experience in high-performance computing on distributed, parallel, and/or other specialized architectures (e.g., GPUs), (5) Interest in enabling solver technology within computationally challenging advanced simulations such as uncertainty quantification via stochastic partial differential equations, data-driven inverse problems, PDE-based optimization, and sophisticated multi-physics systems, (6) Ability to work in a collaborative research environment on problems comprising diverse application domains, (7) Excellent written and oral communication skills, (8) Ability to obtain and retain a Department of Energy security clearance preferred but not required

This position does not currently require a Department of Energy (DOE)-granted security clearance.

For more information, go to  <http://jobs.sandia.gov> and search for Job ID 652198.


You can also click the following link directly:

<https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_APP_SCHJOB.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=652198&PostingSeq=1>

Feel free to send me, Ray Tuminaro (rstumin@sandia.gov), email if you have any questions.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Mar 07, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.