---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-10-03
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---

The digest this month includes important dates for the next Householder Symposium, information on conference proceedings and special issues, and a number of job advertisments.

## CONTENTS

- [2017 Householder Symposium Application Deadline 31 October](#nav0)
- [CfP: MOPTA 2016 - The Modeling and Optimization: Theory and Applications (MOPTA) conference proceedings](#nav1)
- [Special Issue of Parallel Computing devoted to PMAA'16, Bordeaux](#nav2)
- [PhD position at University of Edinburgh](#nav3)
- [Assistant Professor Position in Applied Mathematics at Columbia](#nav4)
- [ Applied Mathematics PhD position](#nav5)
- [ Tenure-track faculty positions at ICTS-TIFR, Bangalore](#nav6)
- [Postdoc opening at Lawrence Berkeley Lab](#nav7)
- [Postdoc openings at Sandia in HPC and linear solvers](#nav8)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav9)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">2017 Householder Symposium Application Deadline 31 October</a>

The Householder Symposium XX on Numerical Linear Algebra will be held
at The Inn at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, VA, USA, 18-23 June 2017.

Web page: <http://www.math.vt.edu/HHXX/>  
Application deadline: 31 October 2016  
Notification of acceptance: 15 February 2017  

Attendance at the meeting is by invitation only. Applications are
welcome from researchers in numerical linear algebra, matrix theory,
and related areas such as optimization, differential equations, signal
processing, and control. Each attendee will be given the opportunity
to present a talk or a poster. Some talks will be plenary lectures,
while others will be shorter presentations arranged in parallel
sessions.

The Symposium is very informal, with the intermingling of young and
established researchers a priority. Participants are expected to
attend the entire meeting. It is expected that partial support will be
available for some students, early career participants, and
participants from countries with limited resources.

The sixteenth Householder Award for the best PhD thesis in numerical
linear algebra (PhD earned between 1 January 2014, and 31 December
2016) will be presented. Nominations for the Householder Award are due
by 31 January 2017.

The Householder Symposium takes place in cooperation with the Society
for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) and the SIAM Activity
Group on Linear Algebra.


---------------

## <a name="nav1">CfP: MOPTA 2016 - The Modeling and Optimization: Theory and Applications (MOPTA) conference proceedings</a>

Dear colleagues,  

MOPTA aims at bringing together a diverse group of people from both discrete and continuous optimization, working on both theoretical and applied aspects.   

We would like to invite you to submit your paper to MOPTA 2016 conference proceedings.

You can review past MOPTA proceedings at:
<http://www.springer.com/us/book/9783319236988>  
<http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4614-3924-0>  
<http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4614-8987-0>  

IMPORTANT DATES  

Dec 16, 2016: submission of papers  
Jan 1, 2017: assigning papers to reviewers  
March 1, 2017: reviews due  
March 15, 2017: acceptance/rejection decision  
May 15, 2017: revised version due  


SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS  

Your paper can be submitted on following website: <https://ocs.springer.com/prom/home/MOPTA2016>  

LaTeX template and instructions for authors can be found here <https://www.springer.com/gp/authors-editors/conference-proceedings/conference-proceedings-guidelines>

 Sincerely, Martin Takac
 on behalf of the MOPTA-2016 editors  


---------------

## <a name="nav2">Special Issue of Parallel Computing devoted to PMAA'16, Bordeaux</a>

A special issue of Parallel Computing (Elsevier) will be devoted to the
9th International Workshop on Parallel Matrix Algorithms and 
Applications (PMAA'16) that took place in Bordeaux, July 6-8, 2016,
<http://pmaa16.inria.fr>.

Papers submitted to the special issue should have a strong parallel
computing and numerical linear algebra components including
numerical analysis, scientific and industrial applications, software
development, and high performance computing.  The topics to be
covered in the issue include, but are not limited to  

* Parallel methods for solving large sparse or dense linear systems of
  equations.  
* Parallel eigenvalue and singular value computations.  
* Automatic tuning and performance modeling.  
* Novel architectural paradigms (e.g. GPU and multicore) and their use
  in matrix computations and applications.  
* Large scale scientific applications from diverse fields which have
  an emphasis on parallel matrix computation.  

Manuscripts will undergo the standard Parallel Computing peer-reviewing
process.  They must be submitted electronically via Elsevier's editorial
system at URL  
<http://ees.elsevier.com/parco/>.

Authors are to follow the instructions in the Guide for Authors.  In
particular, when choosing the "Article Type" during the submission
process, make sure you select the type "SI: PMAA'16".

The guest editors of this special issue are
Emmanuel Agullo, Inria  
Peter Arbenz, ETH Zurich  
Luc Giraud, Inria  (managing guest editor)  
Olaf Schenk, USI Lugano  

For any questions, please contact Luc Giraud (mailto:luc.giraud@inria.fr)

Important dates  
Deadline for submissions of full papers       December 15, 2016  
Reviews due                                   March 30, 2017  
Deadline for re-submission of revised papers  June 30, 2017  


---------------

## <a name="nav3">PhD position at University of Edinburgh</a>

There is a PhD opening at the School of Mathematics, University of Edinburgh.

Area: Big Data Optimization, Machine Learning, Randomized Methods in Optimization, Randomized Numerical Linear Algebra

Starting Date: As soon as possible (before or on January 1, 2017)

PhD Supervisor: Peter Richtarik, <http://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/%7Eprichtar/index.html>

Application Procedure: Apply for PhD in "OR & Optimization" via our online application form: <http://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/school-of-mathematics/studying-here/pgr/phd-application>

There is no application deadline. Applications will be reviewed as they arrive, and the position will be open and advertised until a suitable candidate is found and the   post is filled. You may consider sending an email to Peter Richtarik (<peter.richtarik@ed.ac.uk>) before or after you apply. 

Funding: The position is funded by the School of Mathematics, and is associated with the EPSRC Grant "Randomized Algorithms for Extreme Convex Optimization"

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Assistant Professor Position in Applied Mathematics at Columbia</a>

The Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics (APAM) at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for a limited term Assistant Professor faculty position in the area of applied and computational mathematics. The position begins July 1, 2017 for a term of 2 years. Salary is competitive and teaching is relatively light. Basic responsibilities focus on teaching, research and service. A recent PhD and extraordinary promise in research are required. A broad array of research groups is active in the department, with current research encompassing applied and computational mathematics, and their application to many areas of biology, data and image processing, earth and environmental sciences, materials, and physics. There is a strong cohort of activities on applied and computational mathematics within the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the affiliated Institute of Data Science and Engineering. The Applied Mathematics program also has extensive collaborations with the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the Goddard Institute for Space Science. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community.

Applicants should apply on-line at the following URL:  

academicjobs.columbia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=63091

They should submit electronically the following: a current vita including a list of publications, a one-page research statement with a brief description of their current research work and future research interests, and two letters of recommendation. The search will close no sooner than November 1, 2016 and will remain open until the position is filled. Applicants can consult

<http://www.apam.columbia.edu>

for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------

## <a name="nav5"> Applied Mathematics PhD position</a>

Dear all, 

Currently, there is an open position for a PhD student at the Delft University of Technology, Department of Applied Mathematics in the Numerical Analysis group of Prof. Kees Vuik.  

The subject is:  
  
Multi-Scale Fluid Flow in DYNamically FRACtured Porous Reservoirs  

This is a European Industrial Doctorate project of Schlumberger and the Delft University of Technology. We are looking for a good PhD student who has not studied in the Netherlands the previous 3 years (EU regulations).  

For more details see:   <https://vacature.beta.tudelft.nl/vacaturesite/permalink/588239/?lang=en>
                                        
Best regards,                                                                         
Kees Vuik  
Delft University of Technology  
Delft Institute of Applied Mathematics  
Mekelweg 4, 2628 CD Delft, The Netherlands  
T  +31 (0)15 27 85530

---------------

## <a name="nav6"> Tenure-track faculty positions at ICTS-TIFR, Bangalore</a>

Dear colleagues,  

The International Centre for Theoretical Sciences (ICTS) of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) is seeking applications from candidates with outstanding academic records for one or more faculty positions in Mathematics at junior and senior levels.

We encourage applicants with research experience in any area of mathematics. Examples of specific research areas that we are looking for include, but are not limited to, probability and stochastic analysis, geometry and topology, mathematical physics, dynamical systems and differential equations, scientific computing, applied mathematics in
general, and theoretical computer science.  

For more details and link for application form, please see
<https://www.icts.res.in/faculty-mathematics/>

With regards,   

Amit Apte

International Centre for Theoretical Sciences - TIFR  
Survey No. 151, Shivakote, Hesaraghatta Hobli,  
Bengaluru North 560089 India |   https://goo.gl/maps/6nDsNPDNDVU2  
Office: +91 (0)80 4653 6230  |   http://home.icts.res.in/~apte/

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Postdoc opening at Lawrence Berkeley Lab</a>

The Scalable Solvers Group in the Computational Research Division
at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory has an immediate
opening for a postdoctoral fellow in large-scale traffic
modeling. The candidate will participate in research projects
to develop algorithms and software to predict near-future
traffic flow from real-time measurements, and to help traffic
management centers to improve performance of road networks and
reduce congestion. The projects will focus on the problem of
identifying trends in traffic patterns measured either on the
freeway, on arterials, or both. Computational challenges include
issues of model calibration, confidence, size and fidelity,
real-time analysis, and model coupling. The research activities
will include evaluation of existing algorithms using real data,
development of new algorithms especially parallel algorithms for
handing larger datasets, and integration of the new algorithms
into various simulation models, at both research level and
production level. Deliverables will include both software
distributions as well as publications targeted at top-tier
research conferences and journals.

Please follow the link below to see more details and to apply online:
<https://lbl.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=82932>

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Postdoc openings at Sandia in HPC and linear solvers</a>

The Scalable Algorithms department at Sandia National Labs has openings for 1-2 postdocs in linear solvers and high-performance computing. The selected candidate(s) will conduct innovative research and code development in the following areas: high performance numerical linear algebra, asynchronous parallel iterative solvers, hierarchical matrix solvers, and sparse direct methods.

For more information and to apply, go to <http://www.sandia.gov/careers/ps-forward.html> and search for 654859 or "high-performance computing".

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Nov 07, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
