---
title: SIAG LA Digest
date: 2016-05-02 15:36:25
author: Jennifer Pestana
comments: true
---

Conference season will soon be upon us, and this month's digest has 
reminders of a number of upcoming deadlines and meetings. I hope to see many of you 
this summer!


## CONTENTS

- [Submission deadlines approaching for CSC16](#nav0)
- [MOPTA 2016 (August 17-19, 2016) - Registration and Abstract Submission Opened](#nav1)
- [Submission deadlines approaching for CSC16Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2016), July 2016](#nav2)
- [5th IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation](#nav3)
- [Assistant Prof position in Mathematics of Data Science at University of Edinburgh](#nav4)
- [Faculty positions in Mathematics at the University of Otago](#nav5)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav6)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Submission deadlines approaching for CSC16</a>

The submission deadline for papers and abstracts for SIAM Workshop on Combinatorial Scientific Computing 2016 (CSC16) in Albuquerque, NM, USA, October 10-12, 2016, is fast approaching. Here are the important dates and workshop info:   

Submission deadline for full papers and two-page extended abstracts (for talks): extended to May 9, 2016, 11:59PM PDT.  
Notification of acceptance: July 5, 2016  

Submission deadline for abstracts for poster presentation: June 15, 2016  
Notification of acceptance: July 15, 2016  

### Conference Information
With the continuing advances in high-performance computing, the role of computational science and engineering (CSE) has extensively grown in importance over the last decades. At the same time scientific simulations continue to face a number of challenges and generate massive amounts of data. Many of the underlying problems here are combinatorial in nature and unified by a common set of abstractions, data structures, and algorithms, often based on graphs and hypergraphs. On a related front, data science and analytics have emerged as powerful methods of inquiry across a broad range of domains and pose various fundamental challenges associated with size and complexity of data that would greatly benefit from combinatorial methods. CSC16 provides a forum for researchers interested in the interaction of combinatorial mathematics and algorithms with CSE and/or data science.    

### Conference Proceedings
CSC16 follows six successful CSC workshops held roughly biennially since 2004. A new feature of CSC16 is that there will be a peer-reviewed proceedings associated with the workshop. The proceedings will be published by SIAM and hosted at its platform <http://epubs.siam.org/series/pr>. The papers will be made permanently available with DOI links. SIAM proceedings are indexed by major scientific bibliography databases.   

Authors are invited to submit manuscripts that present original unpublished research in all areas of combinatorial scientific computing. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to,  

* Combinatorial (discrete) models in scientific computing
* Graph and hypergraph algorithms in scientific computing
* Sparse matrix computations
* Combinatorial problems in data science and network science
* Combinatorial problems in Algorithmic Differentiation
* Combinatorial problems in optimization
* Applications of combinatorial scientific computing  

### Types of Submissions  
We invite two types of submissions for talks:  

1. Full Papers. Papers should not exceed ten (10) pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. The SIAM macro to be used for paper preparation is available at <http://www.siam.org/proceedings/macros.php>. Accepted papers will be included in the proceedings, which will be published electronically by SIAM at its proceedings platform. Accepted papers will be presented at the workshop as talks.  

2. Extended Abstracts. Abstracts should not exceed 2 pages using double-column format and 11 pt font size. Accepted abstracts will be presented as talks at the workshop, but will not be published in the proceedings.  

Best Paper Award: There will be a Best Paper Award for one paper selected among submissions in the Full Papers category.   

### Submission Page  
Submission will be handled through EasyChair.   
Submission link: <http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=csc16>   

### Invited Speakers
Srinivas Aluru, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA  
John Gilbert, University of California Santa Barbara, USA   
Gary Miller, Carnegie Mellon University, USA   

### Workshop Co-chairs
Erik Boman, Sandia National Laboratories, USA  
Assefaw Gebremedhin, Washington State University, USA  

### Program Committee  
Cevdet Aykanat, Bilkent University, Turkey   
Aydin Buluc, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA   
Edmond Chow, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA   
Seshadri Comandur, University of California Santa Cruz, USA   
David Gleich, Purdue University, USA   
Laura Grigori, INRIA, France   
Mahantesh Halappanavar, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA   
Jonathan Hogg, Science and Technology Facilities Council, UK   
Kamesh Madduri, Pennsylvania State University, USA   
Siva Rajamanickam, Sandia National Laboratories, USA   
Ilya Safro, Clemson University, USA   
Masha Sosonkina, Old Dominion University, USA   
Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv University, Israel   
Miroslav Tuma, Academy of Sciences, Czech Republic   
Andrea Walther, Paderborn University, Germany   
Stefan Wild, Argonne National Laboratory, USA   

### Steering Committee  
Rob Bisseling, Utrecht University, the Netherlands  
Bruce Hendrickson, Sandia National Laboratories, USA   
X. Sherry Li, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA   
Uwe Naumann, University of Aachen, Germany  
Alex Pothen, Purdue University, USA  
Bora Ucar, CNRS and ENS Lyon, France  

### Further Information  
Further information about the workshop, including registration details and hotel information will be made available at the workshop's website at <http://www.siam.org/meetings/csc16/>.

---------------

## <a name="nav1">MOPTA 2016 (August 17-19, 2016) - Registration and Abstract Submission Opened</a>

Dear Friends and Colleagues   
With apologies for cross-postings.   

We cordially invite you to contribute to the fourteenth annual "Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications" (MOPTA) conference, organized at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, August 17-19, 2016\.

 MOPTA aims at bringing together a diverse group of people from both discrete and continuous optimization, working on both theoretical and applied aspects.  There will be invited plenary talks from distinguished speakers as well as organized sessions and contributed talks, spread over three days.  Our target is to provide a diverse set of exciting new developments from different areas of optimization research while at the same time providing a setting which will allow increased interaction among the participants.  We aim to bring together researchers from both the theoretical and applied communities in the framework of a medium-scale event who do not usually have the chance to interact in larger meetings.

 We welcome contributed talks, and we are also very interested in hearing from people who could organize a session centered around one of their topics of expertise. MOPTA sessions have 3 speakers, with 30 mins per presentation including Q&A's. Speakers will be kindly asked to submit their abstract on the MOPTA website. The deadline for abstract submission is May 20\.

 Confirmed plenary speakers

 * Sem Borst (Technische Universiteit Eindhoven)
 * Gerard P. Cornuejols (Carnegie Mellon University)
 * Michael P. Friedlander (University of California, Davis)
 * Jacek Gondzio (The University of Edinburgh)
 * David Simchi-Levi (MIT)
 * Michael Pinedo (New York University)
 * Robert Shorten (University College Dublin)


 Please contact 
 Alexander Stolyar (<als714@lehigh.edu>) or Martin Takac (<Takac.MT@gmail.com>)  
 if you would like to organize a session for MOPTA.

 Alexander Stolyar, Martin Takac    
 Organizing Committee Co-Chairs

 See more at <http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta>


---------------

## <a name="nav2">Submission deadlines approaching for CSC16Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2016), July 2016</a>


The 22nd Industrial Mathematical & Statistical Modeling (IMSM) Workshop for Graduate Students will take place at North Carolina State University, 17-27 July 2016. The workshop is sponsored by the Statistical and Applied Mathematical Science Institute (SAMSI) together with the Center for Research in Scientific Computation (CRSC) and the Department of Mathematics at North Carolina State University.

The IMSM workshop exposes graduate students in mathematics, engineering, and statistics to exciting real-world problems from industry and government. Projects will be provided by:   

 * US Army Corps of Engineers
 * Sandia National Laboratories
 * US Environmental Protection Agency
 * Pfizer
 * Rho, Inc. 

The workshop also provides students with experience in a research team environment and exposure to possible career opportunities. On the first day, a Software Carpentry bootcamp will bring students up-to-date on their programming skills in Python/Matlab and R, and introduce them to version control systems and software repositories.

Local expenses and travel expenses will be covered for students at US institutions. The application deadline is 15 May 2016.
Information is available at <http://www.samsi.info/IMSM16> and questions can be directed to <grad@samsi.info>

With best regards,
Ilse Ipsen, Pierre Gremaud, and Ralph Smith


---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://tinyurl.com/IMANLAO2016">5th IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimisation</a>
The success of modern codes for large-scale optimization is heavily dependent on the use of effective tools of numerical linear algebra. On the other hand, many problems in numerical linear algebra lead to linear, nonlinear or semidefinite optimization problems. The purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers from both communities and to find and communicate points and topics of common interest. 

Conference topics include any subject that could be of interest to both communities, such as:

 *	Direct and iterative methods for large sparse linear systems. 
 *	Eigenvalue computation and optimization. 
 *	Large-scale nonlinear and semidefinite programming.
 *	Effect of round-off errors, stopping criteria, embedded iterative procedures.
 *	Optimization issues for matrix polynomials
 *	Fast matrix computations.
 *	Compressed/sparse sensing
 *	PDE-constrained optimization
 *	Distributed computing and optimization
 *	Applications and real time optimization

### Invited speakers

 * Tim Davis (Texas A&M University)   
 * Anders Forsgren (KTH Stockholm)   
 * Andreas Frommer (University of Wuppertal)  
 * Jacek Gondzio (University of Edinburgh)  
 * Laura Grigori (INRIA Paris-Rocquencourt)  
 * Jennifer Scott (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory)  
 * Lieven Vandenberghe (UCLA)   

### Organising committee

 * Michal Kocvara, University of Birmingham (co-chair) 
 * Daniel Loghin, University of Birmingham (co-chair)
 * Iain Duff, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
 * Nick Gould, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
 * Julian Hall, University of Edinburgh
 * Francoise Tisseur, University of Manchester

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Assistant Prof position in Mathematics of Data Science at University of Edinburgh</a>

Dear Colleagues and Friends,

We have a Lectureship (= Assistant Professorship) position available in "Mathematics of Data Science" the University of Edinburgh. This includes, among other fields, applicants working in the areas of Mathematical Optimization, Mathematics of Machine Learning, Operations Research, Statistics, Mathematics of Imaging, and Compressed Sensing.  

Application deadline: May 9, 2016  
Starting data: August 1, 2016 (or by mutual agreement)  

More information and a link to the online application can be obtained via:  
<https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/erq_jobspec_version_4.jobspec?p_id=035938>

We are growing Data Science in Edinburgh; please encourage excellent people who might be suitable for those job to apply.  

Thanks and kind regards,  

Peter Richtarik

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Faculty positions in Mathematics at the University of Otago</a>

The department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Otago invites applications for two positions in Mathematics. The appointments are expected to be made at the Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level. The U.S. equivalent level of appointment is Assistant Professor (Lecturer) and Associate Professor (Senior Lecturer).  

We welcome applications from candidates with research expertise in any area of Mathematics. Research areas of current Mathematics staff include algebra, complex analysis, fractional calculus with applications, functional analysis, graph theory, mathematical biology, mathematical physics, operator algebra, polar-marine physics, ring theory and stochastic PDE. Our expectation is that one position will be offered in pure mathematics and the other in applied mathematics.  

Otago has consistently been among the top-ranked research universities in New Zealand, with Pure and Applied Mathematics research at Otago topping the most recent national ranking assessment. The University values research and research-informed teaching, and teaching assignments and loads are structured accordingly. The University is located in the vibrant southern city of Dunedin, which is a gateway to the beautiful Otago region of New Zealand. We encourage academics to establish and maintain international research connections, and we support this with generous research/sabbatical and conference leave.  

Candidates for this position should have a PhD in Mathematics or equivalent, a demonstrated commitment to ongoing mathematical research with a potential to develop a research program of international repute, and demonstrated success and/or aptitude in teaching Mathematics. The successful applicant will be capable of teaching the full range of our Mathematics courses at the undergraduate level, from first-year to Honours courses, and will supervise postgraduate research students.  

The position is full time and permanent subject to the satisfactory completion of the confirmation-path objectives for new appointees. The confirmation-path process is similar to the process of gaining tenure but is entirely internal with predetermined objectives.  

We welcome international candidates and provide financial assistance for relocation and visa applications. There is a wealth of practical information available for migrants considering a move to New Zealand and Dunedin.  

Specific enquiries about this position may be directed to the Head of Department Professor Robert Aldred.  

Applications quoting reference number 1600643 will close on Friday, 20 May 2016\.  


For contact details, applications forms, and further information, see  
<https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=1600643>

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jun 06, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.