---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2016-04-04
author: Jennifer Pestana
comments: true
---

[Marvin Marcus](http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/newspress/obituary.aspx?n=marvin-david-marcus&pid=177917136) passed away on February 20, 2016. Marvin will be remembered not only for his 
many contributions to matrix theory and multilinear algebra but also for his support and mentorship of others, particularly his graduate students. Among his many achievements, Marvin co-founded Linear and Multilinear 
Algebra, and a special issue will be devoted to his memory as detailed below. 


## CONTENTS

- [Special issue of Linear and Multilinear Algebra in memory of Marvin Marcus](#nav0)
- [SISC Copper Mountain Special Section](#nav1)
- [9th International Workshop on Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA16)](#nav2)
- [CSCS-USI Summer School on Effective High Performance Computing](#nav3)
- [Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2016)](#nav4)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav5)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Special issue of Linear and Multilinear Algebra in memory of Marvin Marcus</a>

Dear colleagues,

The linear and multilinear algebra community is sad to lose Marvin Marcus, 
who had make substantial contributions on various topics on the subject, 
developed human resources by training and attracting many researchers to 
the research area, and co-founded the journal Linear and Multilinear Algebra. 
A special issue of Linear and Multilinear Algebra will be devoted to the memory 
of Marvin Marcus. Colleagues are encouraged to submit paper to the special issue 
by September 30, 2016. The special editors are:

Shmuel Friedland, University of Illinois - Chicago, <friedlan@uic.edu>   
Thomas Pate, Auburn University, <a href="mailto:pate_tom@bellsouth.net">pate_tom@bellsouth.net</a>   
Yiu-Tung Poon, Iowa State University, <ytpoon@iastate.edu>

Submissions should be done through the website:   
<https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/glma>


Steve Kirkland and Chi-Kwong Li
Editors, Linear and Multilinear Algebra


---------------

## <a name="nav1">SISC Copper Mountain Special Section</a>

The Fourteenth Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative
Methods was held on March 20-25, 2016. The meeting
attracted more than 200 participants from around the
world, and there were 173 talks covering a broad
spectrum of topics related to iterative solvers
(<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2016/>).

As in previous even-numbered years, the SIAM Journal
on Scientific Computing (SISC) is planning a Special
Section, dedicated to recent progress in iterative methods.

Submissions are encouraged in all aspects of iterative
methods including the following areas:

* Iterative Linear Algebraic Data Mining Techniques
* Optimization of Complex Problems/Systems (PDE-constrained
optimization, optimization under uncertainty, and
simulation-based optimization)
* Inverse problems, regularization
* Nonlinear solution methods, nonlinear least squares
* Eigenvalue and singular value methods and applications
* Iterative solvers/linear algebra on high concurrency
node architectures
* Uncertainty quantification/PDEs with random data
* Hybrid direct-iterative solvers
* Solvers for indefinite systems
* Surrogate modeling/model reduction
* Low-rank solvers for systems with Kronecker structure
* Robust and scalable iterative solution of coupled
multi-physics problems: electromagnetics/fluids
* Iterative methods in energy applications
* Iterative methods in imaging
* Quantum chemistry/physics
* Iterative solvers in climate applications

The window for submission is April 1 - June 30, 2016.
Attendees and participants of the conference as well
as the general community are invited to submit papers.
Papers will be subject to review by a guest Editorial Board.

For submission instructions, visit

<http://www.siam.org/journals/sisc/sisc_special.php>

or

<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2016/sisc.php>

Michele Benzi
Guest Editor-in-Charge, Copper Mountain Special Section


---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://pmaa16.inria.fr">9th International Workshop on Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA16)</a>

### IMPORTANT DATES

* April 15, 2016 - Acceptance notification  
* May 13, 2016 - End of early registration  
* June 17, 2016 - Online registration closing  
* July 6-8, 2016 - Conference  

### CONFERENCE OVERVIEW

The 9th International Workshop on Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA16) will be held in Bordeaux (France) and will run from July 6 to 8, 2016\.

The workshop aims at being a forum for an exchange of ideas, insights and experiences in different areas of parallel computing (Multicore, Manycores and GPU) and applications in which matrix algorithms are employed.
The PMAA16 workshop will bring together experts and researchers from diverse disciplines with a common interest in matrix computation. The purpose of the workshop is to discuss recent developments in various aspects of parallel matrix algorithms and to bring together mathematicians, computational scientists and engineers. 

The workshop will focus on:
- Parallel methods for solving large sparse or dense linear systems of equations.
- Parallel eigenvalue and singular value computations.
- Automatic tuning and performance modeling.
- Novel architectural paradigms (e.g. accelerator and multicore) and their use in matrix computations and applications.
- Large scale scientific applications from diverse fields which have an emphasis on parallel matrix computation.

We invite you to submit scientific contributions in all fields of numerical analysis, scientific and industrial applications, software development, and high performance computing. From the submissions received, the Organizing Committee will select papers to be presented as oral contributions. We hope that this opportunity to present and discuss science will interest you, and we look forward to seeing you in Bordeaux!
Papers presented at the PMAA16 and submissions on closely related topics will be considered for publication in a special issue of of Parallel Computing after a peer review process. They must be submitted electronically via Elsevier's online submission system at <http://ees.elsevier.com/parco/>.

###COMMITTEE

Co-chairs:
E. Agullo (Inria, France), P. Arbenz (ETH Zurich, Switzerland), L. Giraud (Inria, France), O. Schenk (USI, Switzerland).

Steering committe:
P. Arbenz (ETH Zurich, Switzerland), E. Kontoghiorghes (U London, UK) , Y. Saad (U Minnesota, USA), A. Sameh (Purdue U, USA), O. Schenk (USI, Switzerland).

Local organizing committee:
E. Agullo, V. Cabet, O. Coulaud, A. Esnard, M. Faverge, L. Giraud, L. Grimaldi, C. Plumejeau, P. Ramet, J. Roman, S. Valerius.

International program committee:
P. D'Ambra (ICAR, Italy), H. Avron (Tel Aviv U, Israel), M. Bader (TU Munchen, Germany), W. Bangerth (TAMU, USA), A. Basermann (BLR, Germany), C. Bekas (IBM Zurich, Switzerland), P. Bientinesi (Aachen U,Germany), R. Blaheta (TU Ostrava, Czech Republic), M. Bollhoefer (TU Brunswick, Germany), E. Boman (SNL, USA), G. Bosilca (UTK, USA), A. Buttari (CNRS, France), X.-C. Cai (UCB, USA), H. Calandra (Total, USA), O. Coulaud (Inria, France), E. Chow (Georgia Tech, USA), E. Darve (Stanford U, USA), Z. Drmac (U Zagreb, Croatia), N. Emad (UVSQ, France), M. Faverge (Bordeaux INP, France), E. Gallopoulos (U Patras, Greece), D. Goeddeke (TU Dortmund, Germany), J. Gondahmed samehzio (U Edinburgh, UK), D. Gordon (U Haifa , Israel), L. Grigori (Inria, France), A. Guermouche (U Bordeaux, France), I. Gutheil (JSC, Germany), G. Houzeaux (BSC, Spain), T. Huckle (TU Munchen, Germany), M. Knepley (RICE U, USA), R. Krause (USI, Switzerland), J. Langou (UCD, USA), H. Ltaief (KAUST, Saudi Arabia), K. Meerbergen (KU Leuven, Belgium), Y. U. Meier (LLNL, USA), E. Ng (LBNL, USA), G. Oksa (Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovak Republic), S. Petiton (U. Lille, France), P. Ramet (U. Bordeaux, France), J. Roman (Inria, France), J. E. Roman (UPV, Spain), C. Petra (ANL, USA), T. Sakurai (U Tsukuba, Japan), D. B. Szyld (Temple U, USA), D. Trystram (Grenoble INP, France), M. Tuma (Praha U, Czech Republic), B. U&ccedil;ar (CNRS, France), M. Vajtersic (Salzburg U, Austria), W. Vanroose (U Antwerp, Belgium), P. Vasconcelos (Porto U, Portugal), R. Wyrzykowski (TU Czestochowa, Poland).

###INVITED SPEAKERS

* Cleeve Ashcraft (LSTC, Livermore)  
* Costas Bekas (IBM, Switzerland)  
* Thierry Deutsch (CEA, France)  
* Jack Dongarra (University of Tennessee, USA, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA, and University of Manchester, UK)

With best regards,

Emmanuel Agullo

---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://goo.gl/VYnFE8">CSCS-USI Summer School on Effective High Performance Computing</a>
The Swiss National Supercomputing Centre (<http://www.cscs.ch>) and the
Institute of Computational Science (<http://www.ics.usi.ch>) at Universit&agrave;
della Svizzera italiana are pleased to announce the opening of the
selection process for participation in the annual Summer School. The
Summer School will be held from July 17 through July 28, 2016, in
Hotel Serpiano (<http://www.serpiano.ch>), located in the Italian area
of Switzerland.  The hotel is positioned on Mount San Giorgio, UNESCO
World Heritage site since 2003, wherefrom participants can enjoy an
incredible view of Ceresio lake and its surroundings.

The Summer School will focus on the effective exploitation of High
Performance Computing (HPC) systems, more details on the agenda can be
found on our webpage: <http://goo.gl/VYnFE8>

Please see the flyer in attachment and the youtube video from the 2015
Summer School: <https://goo.gl/UDwmST>

###REQUIREMENTS

The Summer School is dedicated to Master and Ph.D. students, academic
staff and professionals. Applicants have to match the following
requirements:

* Good knowledge of at least one of the following programming
languages: C++, C, or Fortran 90
* Familiarity with the UNIX/Linux OS and the basic programming
environment tools (terminals, editors, compilers)
* Require HPC skills for their work or research.

Only applicants who satisfy all requirements will be considered.
Participants will need to bring their own laptop for practical
sessions.

###CONTENT
The school will focus on the effective exploitation of High
Performance Computing (HPC) systems. Current and coming generations of
HPC systems are increasing in size and complexity. Multi-core
processors, general purpose graphic accelerators (GPUs), many-cores
accelerators (MIC), ultra-fast parallel storage devices, and high
bandwidth low-latency networks are being combined to be used
effectively for scientific and technical computing. On suitable
classes of algorithms, outstanding performance can be achieved with
power efficiency significantly higher than traditional architectures,
considerably minimising overall times-to-solution of high-end
scientific problems. An efficient usage of such hybrid architectures
is not a trivial task, often requiring a full redesign and refactoring
of the code in order to expose those features that can be optimally
exploited by a given hardware component, as massively parallel
algorithmic components, that can be effectively accelerated by the
GPU, or overlapping computation and communication in order to scale on
thousands of CPUs. Traditional parallel programming approaches, based
on the message-passing paradigm, are no longer sufficient to fulfil
this task, and innovative solutions need to be addressed.

During the two weeks of the school a number of such solutions will be
presented. The MPI, OpenMP, CUDA, OpenACC programming models will be
introduced, together with scientific libraries and efficient I/O and
data visualisation solutions and optimisation techniques. Their
effective combined usage, in order to achieve an ideal exploitation of
large hybrid architectures, will be discussed and experimented with
extensive practical and exercise lab sessions to help clarify and
consolidate the theoretical material presented.

The following topics will be covered:

* Message passing programming model and the MPI standard
* Shared memory systems and the OpenMP programming model
* Scientific libraries
* MPI I/O and other solutions for efficient data reading and writing
* GPU programming with CUDA and OpenACC
* Code optimization
* Scientific visualisation

###APPLICATION PROCESS
If you meet all requirements, please download the application form
(<http://goo.gl/hO38AD>) fill it in, and send it to
<summerschool2016@cscs.ch> no later than **Sunday, April 11, 2016**. Thirty
applicants will be selected to participate in the Summer School. You
will be notified about acceptance or rejection of your application by
Monday, April 27, 2016. Those candidates whose application successfully
passes the selection process will receive further information regarding
the registration.

###PARTICIPATION FEE

* Rate for academic staff, PhDs and university students: CHF 1'300
* Rate for non-academic professionals: CHF 2'600
* Fees include:
- Eight full-day and one half-day intensive courses based on
theoretical and practical coaching in a group of 30 participants
- Learning materials introduced by instructors
- A visit to the Swiss National Supercomputing Centre (CSCS)
- Double room accommodation together with another participant
throughout the duration of the course (eleven nights from
Sunday, July 17 through Thursday, July 28, 2016)
- Breakfast, lunch and dinner during weekdays
- Breakfast during the weekend

Participants can book additional nights at their expense before or
after the event at the same favorable rate of CHF 118 for a room with
double occupancy, or CHF 99 for a room with single occupancy.

---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://www.samsi.info/IMSM16">Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2016)</a>
The 22nd Industrial Mathematical & Statistical Modeling (IMSM) Workshop for Graduate Students will take place at North Carolina State University, 17-27 July 2016.  The workshop is sponsored by the Statistical and Applied Mathematical Science Institute (SAMSI) together with the Center for Research in Scientific Computation (CRSC) and the Department of Mathematics at North Carolina State University.

The IMSM workshop exposes graduate students in mathematics,
engineering, and statistics to exciting real-world problems from industry and government. The workshop provides students with experience in a research team environment and exposure to possible career opportunities. On the first day, a Software Carpentry bootcamp will bring students up-to-date on their programming skills in Python/Matlab and R, and introduce them to version control systems and software repositories.

Local expenses and travel expenses will be covered for students at US institutions. The application deadline is 15 May 2016. Information is available at <http://www.samsi.info/IMSM16> and questions can be directed to <grad@samsi.info>

With best regards,
Ilse Ipsen, Pierre Gremaud, and Ralph Smith

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on May 02, 2016.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

