---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-12-04
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



SIAG/LA is calling for sponsored minisymposia and miniposteria at the upcoming annual meeting. Please get in touch for more information!

## CONTENTS

- [SIAG/LA sponsored minisymposium/ miniposterium at SIAM Annual Meeting](#nav0)
- [2018 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School on Inverse Problems - Call for Applications](#nav1)
- [Los Alamos National Laboratory Summer School on Geosciences and Machine Learning](#nav2)
- [CM2018 Student Paper Competition](#nav3)
- [Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA'18), Jun 27-29, 2018](#nav4)
- [Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing opening, Computer Science, University of Toronto](#nav5)
- [Two Tenure-Track Assistant Professor positions at The University of Akron](#nav6)
- [Chair, Department of Mathematics, University of Texas at San Antonio](#nav7)
- [PhD position at University of Strathclyde](#nav8)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav9)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">SIAG/LA sponsored minisymposium/ miniposterium at SIAM Annual Meeting</a>

The SIAG/LA committee are looking to sponsor a small number of minisymposia and/or miniposteria at the SIAM Annual Meeting in Portland, Oregon, July 9-13, 2018. These will be advertised as being sponsored by the SIAG/LA. Please note, however, that no financial contribution can be provided.

Members who are thinking of submitting a minisymposium/miniposterium proposal for the annual meeting, who would like to be considered for sponsorship, are invited to contact Melina Freitag (m.freitag@maths.bath.ac.uk) by  December 31. 


---------------

## <a name="nav1">2018 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School on Inverse Problems - Call for Applications</a>

2018 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School  
Inverse Problems: Systematic Integration of Data with Models under Uncertainty  
June 17-30, 2018  
Breckenridge, Colorado, USA  
<http://g2s3.com>

Applications are now being accepted for the 2018 Gene Golub SIAM
Summer School (G2S3 2018), which will take place June 17-30, 2018, in
Breckenridge, Colorado, USA. The summer school aims to introduce
graduate students to the mathematical and computational aspects of
inverse problems, particularly modern developments that emphasize the
quantification of uncertainty in the inverse solution within the
framework of Bayesian inference. Applicants selected to participate
pay no registration fee, and costs of local accommodation and meals
will be covered for all participants. In addition, (at least partial)
travel support will be provided upon request.

Applications are being accepted now through February 1, 2018 via
Mathprograms (<https://www.mathprograms.org/db/programs/608>). More
information is available on the G2S3 2018 website (<http://g2s3.com>).


---------------

## <a name="nav2">Los Alamos National Laboratory Summer School on Geosciences and Machine Learning</a>

We are excited to announce 2018 Los Alamos National Laboratory Applied Research in Earth Sciences (ARiES)/Applied Machine Learning Summer School. The theme topic for this year is "Machine Learning for Geosciences." We are currently accepting applications. Successful applicants will receive prestigious research fellowship, hands-on technical training experiences and professional development from internationally reputable geophysics, space and computational scientists.

For more information about our summer school, project and mentor information, please visit our summer school website at <http://aml.lanl.gov>. Applications must be submitted by December 15, 2017 for full consideration.

Diane, Reid and Youzuo  
ARiES/AML 2018 Co-Organizers


---------------

## <a name="nav3">CM2018 Student Paper Competition</a>


The 15th Copper Mountain Conference On Iterative Methods (March 25-30, 2018)
invites submissions for the Student Paper Competition. Any current student or 
new Ph.D. whose degree was awarded after Jan 1, 2017 is invited to submit 
a paper based on work performed as a full-time student.

Submissions will be on EasyChair CM2018 Student Paper Competition track.
A two step process is required with the following deadlines:

  1. Submit an abstract by December 13, 2017.
  2. Submit the paper by January 10, 2018.

For submission links, the required latex template, and more information
about the competition, the conference, and its themes visit: 

<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2018/>


---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://pmaa18.ethz.ch/">Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA'18), Jun 27-29, 2018</a>
10th INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ON 
PARALLEL MATRIX ALGORITHMS AND APPLICATIONS (PMAA'18) 

Jun 27-29, 2018, Zurich, Switzerland.  <http://pmaa18.ethz.ch/>

This international workshop aims to be a forum for exchanging ideas, insights and experiences in different areas of parallel computing in which matrix algorithms play a key role.  The Workshop will bring together experts and practitioners from diverse disciplines with a common interest in matrix computation.  Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following:

* Parallel methods for solving large sparse or dense linear systems of equations and eigenvalue problem
* Parallel environments and tools for enabling matrix applications.
* Large scale applications from any field that have an emphasis on parallel matrix computation
* Novel architectural paradigms (e.g. GPU, MIC, etc.)
* Hybrid approaches to parallel programming
* Automatic tuning and performance modeling
* Combinatorial Scientific Computing

Invited speakers: Chao Yang (Lawrence Berkeley NL), Inderjit Dhillon (UT Austin), Frederic Nataf (UPMC Paris), Edgar Solomonik (UI Urbana-Champaign).

Co-chairs: Peter Arbenz (ETH Zurich, Rolf Krause (USI Lugano), Daniel Kressner (EPF Lausanne), Olaf Schenk (USI Lugano).

Important dates:

- March 15, 2018: Submission of Minisymposium proposals by e-mail to <pmaa18@ethz.ch>    
- March 30, 2018: Submission of abstracts for MS and contributed talks 

For further information contact <pmaa18@ethz.ch>.

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing opening, Computer Science, University of Toronto</a>

The Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto invites 
applications for several tenure-stream faculty positions in

  * Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing  
  * Data Visualization (joint position with the Department of Statistical Sciences)  
  * Robotics  
  * Computer Systems  
  * Knowledge Representation and Reasoning  
  * Computer Science Education  
  * Sustainability and Climate Informatics (joint position with the School of the Environment)  

For further information, please go to the website

<http://web.cs.toronto.edu/dcs/contact/employmentopp.htm>

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Two Tenure-Track Assistant Professor positions at The University of Akron</a>

The Department of Mathematics at The University of Akron invites applications for two tenure-track Assistant Professor positions starting Fall Semester 2018, with priority given to research areas that augment the existing strengths of the Department - applied and computational mathematics, partial differential equations, finite group theory, and geometric combinatorics.  The job responsibilities include teaching and research at the university level.  Preference will be given to candidates whose research has strong connections to applications and potential for collaboration with members of the Department or across campus.  Salary is commensurate with background and experience.  Startup funds are available.
 
Applicants must possess a Ph.D. degree in mathematics or a closely related field by the time of employment, and are expected to provide evidence of an active research program, evidence of teaching experience, and interest in directing student research.  Priority will be given to candidates with postdoctoral experience and demonstrated interest in pursuing external funding.
 
The Department offers Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Mathematics and Applied Mathematics, and accelerated BS/MS 5-year programs.  An Engineering Applied Mathematics doctoral program, emphasizing interdisciplinary applied mathematics, is offered through the College of Engineering.  Additional information about the Department and its programs can be found at <http://www.uakron.edu/math>.
 
The University of Akron is a state-assisted metropolitan university in northeast Ohio with approximately 22,000 students.  The University is well-known for its interdisciplinary programs and has a world-class polymer science program as well as widely recognized programs in engineering, science, business and education.  The University has launched a data science initiative housed in the College of Arts and Sciences.
 
Applicants should submit an application letter, AMS cover sheet, curriculum vitae, statement of research interests, statement of teaching philosophy, unofficial copy of graduate transcripts, and three letters of recommendation, at least one of which should address teaching.
 
References and inquiries should be sent to <phoover@uakron.edu>.  Screening of completed applications will begin on December 1, 2017 and continue until the positions are filled.
 
For complete details and to apply please visit: <http://www.uakron.edu/jobs>. Job ID# 10510
  
The University of Akron is an equal education and employment institution. It is the policy of this institution that there shall be no unlawful discrimination against any individual in employment or in its programs or activities at The University of Akron because of race, color, religion, sex, age, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, genetic information, military status or status as a veteran.  The University is also committed to the principles of affirmative action and acts in accordance with state and federal laws.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Chair, Department of Mathematics, University of Texas at San Antonio</a>

The University of Texas at San Antonio seeks an innovative and dynamic leader for the Department of Mathematics with demonstrated leadership abilities who will build on departmental strengths, recruit outstanding faculty, promote scholarly initiatives - especially in terms of externally supported grant efforts - and be an advocate to both internal University and external constituencies.   UTSA is a vibrant University aspiring to reach Tier One research status. The Department is located within the College of Sciences and offers a Bachelor degree in Mathematics and Masters Programs in Mathematics, Mathematics Education, and Applied Mathematics-Industrial Mathematics. The Department has 22 full-time faculty with diverse interests and expertise and 33 non-tenured track faculty members. The department is committed to growing and expanding its undergraduate and graduate programs and developing a Ph.D. program. UTSA and the Mathematics Department are committed to supporting a growing diverse student body and encourage applications from women, minorities, and individuals with a commitment to mentoring under-represented demographics in the sciences. Opportunities for interdisciplinary interactions and collaborations exist not only within other departments and within colleges at UTSA, but also with the UT Health Science Center San Antonio, Southwest Research Institute, local military bases, and numerous companies including USAA, Boeing, and Rackspace.  San Antonio, Texas is a vibrant city of more than 1.5 million people, with significant economic growth, numerous industrial establishments and excellent school districts. The city and the University provide excellent cultural and educational opportunities as well as exceptional employment opportunities.

Position requirements:

- Degree Requirements: PhD or equivalent in Mathematics. The area of specialization is open  
- Record of earning tenure at an accredited four-year university  
- Associate or full professor  
- Evidence of administrative experience in a higher education setting (center, department, program, director graduate studies, etc.).  
- A strong record of externally funded and recognized research  
- Record of teaching effectiveness and mentoring of students including doctoral students  
- Record of involvement with national/international organizations  
- An ability to work productively with faculty and students from diverse backgrounds  

Required Application Materials

1. Letter of application/narrative statement that describes, in 1 to 3 pages, applicant's qualifications for the position and plans for future administrative/research/teaching for the department.  
2. Teaching agenda/statement (max. 2pages)  
3. Research agenda/statement (max. 2 pages)  
4. Curriculum vita   
5. Provide a minimum of 3 references   
6. Sample publications (in PDF format): provide work that is representative of research.  
7. Statement of Administrative Philosophy  

Review of completed applications will begin on November 17, 2017 and continue until the position is filled.  

All applicants should submit their application materials through the <https://jobs.utsa.edu/postings/7626> site.

UTSA is an Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants who are selected for interviews must be able to show proof that they will be eligible and qualified to work in the United States by time of hire.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">PhD position at University of Strathclyde</a>

Applications are invited for a fully funded 3 year PhD studentship in numerical linear algebra, under the supervision of Dr Jennifer Pestana and Dr Alison Ramage, at the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland. The project will begin 1 March, 2018, or earlier by arrangement. 

This project aims to develop novel preconditioned iterative methods for linear systems arising in the numerical approximation of partial differential equations via radial basis functions (RBFs). These RBF methods are well suited to problems with complex geometries and/or scattered data, such as those occurring in biological and geophysical applications. However, the linear system that must be solved as part of the RBF method becomes increasingly challenging to work with as the approximation is refined. This project will extend previous work on preconditioning RBF systems to provide more efficient and robust solvers for these problems. 

The studentship covers UK/EU tuition fees and comes with an annual tax-free stipend at the standard UK rate. International students who can fund the difference between UK/EU and International fee rates are also encouraged to apply. 

Applicants should have or expect to obtain a good (I or II(i)) honours degree in mathematics or in a related discipline. Experience of numerical mathematics and/or programming would be beneficial. 

For more information please see <http://siags.siam.org/siagla/jobs.html> or contact Dr Pestana (<jennifer.pestana@strath.ac.uk>). 

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jan 01, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

