---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-09-04
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



The digest this month includes an opportunity to contribute to the Strutctured Matrix Market, as well as annoucements of upcoming conferences and job opportunities.

## CONTENTS

- [Structured Matrix Market](#nav0)
- [SIAM Conference on Parallel Processing for Scientific Computing](#nav1)
- [Postdoctoral Position in Numerical Linear Algebra on Extreme-scale Computers at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Oxfordshire, UK](#nav2)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav3)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Structured Matrix Market</a>

We are launching a repository for structured matrices -- Structured Matrix Market (SMart): <http://smart.math.purdue.edu/>

The collection is for various types of structured matrices in the forms of Matlab and other source codes, as well as data files. The codes can be used to generate test data for matrix computations, especially fast structured methods such as rank-structured direct solvers.

Submissions of codes and data related to structured matrices are welcome. The submission method can be found on the website.

Jianlin Xia
Purdue University


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="https://www.siam.org/meetings/pp18/">SIAM Conference on Parallel Processing for Scientific Computing</a>
CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

SIAM Conference on Parallel Processing for Scientific Computing  
(PP18)  
March 7-10, 2018, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan 

<https://www.siam.org/meetings/pp18/><br />  
<http://siampp18.jsiam.org/>  
Twitter hashtag: #SIAMPP18  

### Important Dates:  
Aug.21, 2017: Minisymposium proposal Submissions  
Sep.18, 2017: Contributed Lecture, Poster and Minisymposium 
Presentation Abstracts  
Sep.08, 2017: SIAM Student Travel Award & Early Career Travel Award 
Applications  

### Hosted by:
SIAM Activity Group on Supercomputing (SIAG/SC)  
The Japan Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (JSIAM)
Waseda University

SIAM Conference on Parallel Processing for Scientific Computing, hosted
by SIAM Activity Group on
Supercomputing, is one of the most important meetings on algorithms and
applications for parallel
processing. The meeting is held every second year, and more than 400 
experts from all over the world
attend it in recent years. The 16th meeting in 2018 (SIAM PP18) will be
held at the Nishi-Waseda
Campus of Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan.


### Invited Speakers:  
Takuya Akiba, Preferred Networks, Japan  
Haohuan Fu, National Supercomputing Center, Wuxi, China  
Tsuyoshi Ichimura, Earthquake Research Institute, The University of 
Tokyo, Japan  
Lois Curfman McInnes, Argonne National Laboratory, USA  
Shin'ichi Oishi, Waseda University, Japan  
John Shalf, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA  
Wim Vanroose, University of Antwerp, Belgium  
Chao Yang, Chinese Academy of Science, China  

### Co-Chairs of the Conference Organizing Committee:
Satoshi Matsuoka, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan  
Kengo Nakajima, Information Technology Center, The University of 
Tokyo , Japan  
Olaf Schenk, Universita della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland  

### Local Organizing Committee:  
Shin'ichi Oishi, Waseda University & President of JSIAM, Japan, Chair  
Tetsuya Sakurai, University of Tsukuba, Japan, Vice-Chair  
Takeshi Ogita, Tokyo Women's Christian University, Japan, Secretary 
General  
Naoya Yamanaka, Meisei University, Japan, Secretary  
Yuuka Yanagisawa, Waseda University, Japan, Secretary  
Atsuhi Minamihata, Waseda University, Japan, Secretary  
Toshihiro Hanawa, The University of Tokyo, Japan  
Tetsuya Hoshino, The University of Tokyo, Japan  
Akihiro Ida, The University of Tokyo, Japan  
Masahide Kashiwagi, Waseda University, Japan  
Satoshi Matsuoka, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan  
Yusuke Morikura, Teikyo Heisei University, Japan  
Kengo Nakajima, The University of Tokyo, Japan  
Kouta Sekine, Toyo University, Japan  
Reiji Suda, The University of Tokyo, Japan  
Rio Yokota, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Postdoctoral Position in Numerical Linear Algebra on Extreme-scale Computers at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Oxfordshire, UK</a>

We are inviting applications for a postdoctoral position in the Computational
Mathematics Group at STFC-RAL in Oxfordshire, UK.

The successful candidate will join  the Numerical Linear Algebra for Future 
and Emerging Technologies (NLAFET) project funded by the European Commission 
involving Inria, Umea University, University of Manchester and STFC-RAL.  
The position will focus on the design, implementation, and evaluation of
parallel algorithms for numerical linear algebra with regards to
extreme-scale challenges.  The  research at RAL will principally be on 
sparse direct solvers that are highly scalable and thus suitable for future 
and emerging large scale computers.  The algorithms developed will be 
validated on several applications targeted by NLAFET, such as power systems, 
computational fluid dynamics, and astrophysics.  The research will be done in 
close collaboration with established researchers in the Computational 
Mathematics Group as well as with other partners in NLAFET.

Candidates should have a PhD in applied mathematics or computer
science and expertise in numerical linear algebra and high
performance computing. The candidate must have a visa to work in the UK
which automatically includes any UK or EU citizen.

This post offers a full-time research appointment until the end of the
project on 31 October 2018.

Informal enquiries may be made to: Iain Duff <iain.duff@stfc.ac.uk>.

To apply or to find out more details about the position,
please go to the STFC recruitment portal at:
<http://topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc242252_7364.aspx>

The deadline for applications is 24th September 2017 but I encourage people to
apply well before that date.  The appointment can begin at any time after
the job offer and ideally the post should start on or before 1st November 2017.

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Oct 02, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
