---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-11-06
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---


In the digest this month are a number of conference and job announcements, as well as calls for proposals for the 2019 Gene Golub Summer School. 

## CONTENTS

- [New book, Vector Extrapolation Methods with Applications](#nav0)
- [Call for Proposals: Gene Golub SIAM Summer School 2019](#nav1)
- [GAMM annual meeting 2018, Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra](#nav2)
- [ACM PASC18, Basel, July 02-04, 2018: First Call for Papers, Minisymposia and Posters Submissions](#nav3)
- [Postdoctoral Research Fellows at Emory University, Atlanta, GA](#nav4)
- [John von Neumann Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computational Science at Sandia National Laboratories](#nav5)
- [Tenure-track faculty positions in Computer Science, Courant Institute, NYU](#nav6)
- [Postdoctoral Fellowship in Data Science at AIMS South Africa](#nav7)
- [Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computing Sciences at Berkeley Lab](#nav8)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav9)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">New book, Vector Extrapolation Methods with Applications</a>

*Announcing the publication by SIAM of:*

**Vector Extrapolation Methods with Applications**  
Avram Sidi   
*Computational Science and Engineering 17*

An important problem that arises in different disciplines of science and engineering is that of computing limits of sequences of vectors of very large dimension. Such sequences arise, for example, in the numerical solution of systems of linear and nonlinear equations by fixed-point iterative methods, and their limits are simply the required solutions to these systems. The convergence of these sequences, which is very slow in many cases, can be accelerated successfully by using suitable vector extrapolation methods.

*Vector Extrapolation Methods with Applications* is the first book fully dedicated to the subject of vector extrapolation methods. It is a self-contained, up-to-date, and state-of-the-art reference on the theory and practice of the most useful methods. It covers all aspects of the subject, including development of the methods, their convergence study, numerically stable algorithms for their implementation, and their various applications. It also provides complete proofs in most places. As an interesting application, the author shows how these methods give rise to rational approximation procedures for vector-valued functions in the complex plane, a subject of importance in model reduction problems among others.

**Audience**  
This book is intended for numerical analysts, applied mathematicians, and computational scientists and engineers in fields such as computational fluid dynamics, structures, and mechanical and electrical engineering, to name a few. Since it provides complete proofs in most places, it can also serve as a textbook in courses on acceleration of convergence of iterative vector processes, for example.

**About the Author**  
**Avram Sidi** is Professor Emeritus of Numerical Analysis in the Computer Science Department at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and the former holder of the Technion Administration Chair in Computer Science. He has published extensively in various areas of numerical analysis and approximation theory, such as convergence acceleration, numerical integration, rational approximation, and asymptotic analysis, convergence acceleration being a major area. He is also the author of the book Practical Extrapolation Methods: Theory and Applications (Cambridge University Press, 2003), which deals exclusively with the acceleration of convergence of scalar sequences. His research has involved the development of novel numerical methods of high accuracy, their rigorous mathematical analysis, design of efficient algorithms for their implementation, and their application to difficult problems. His methods and algorithms are being used successfully in various scientific and engineering disciplines.

**Contents**  
Chapter 0: Introduction and Review of Linear Algebra; Part I: Vector Extrapolation Methods; Chapter 1: Development of Polynomial Extrapolation Methods; Chapter 2: Unified Algorithms for MPE and RRE; Chapter 3: MPE and RRE are Related; Chapter 4: Algorithms for MMPE and SVD-MPE; Chapter 5: Epsilon Algorithms; Chapter 6: Convergence Study of Extrapolation Methods: Part I; Chapter 7: Convergence Study of Extrapolation Methods: Part II; Chapter 8: Recursion Relations for Vector Extrapolation Methods; Part II: Krylov Sybspace Methods; Chapter 9: Krylov Subspace Methods for Linear Systems; Chapter 10: Krylov Subspace Methods for Eigenvalue Problems; Part III: Applications and Generalizations; Chapter 11: Miscellaneous Applications of Vector Extrapolation Methods; Chapter 12: Rational Approximations from Vector-Valued Power Series: Part I; Chapter 13: Rational Approximations from Vector-Valued Power Series: Part II; Chapter 14: Applications of SMPE, SMMPE, and STEA; Chapter 15: Vector Generalizations of Scalar Extrapolation Methods; Chapter 16: Vector-Valued Rational Interpolation Methods; Part IV: Appendices; Appendix A: QR Factorization; Appendix B: Singular Value Decompositions (SVD); Appendix C: Moore-Penrose Generalized Inverse; Appendix D: Basics of Orthogonal Polynomails; Appendix E: Chebyshev Polynomials: Basic Properties; Appendix F: Useful Formulas and Results for Jacobi Polynomials; Appendix G: Rayleigh Quotient and Power Method; Appendix H: Unified FORTRAN77 Code for MPE and RRE.

2017 / xiv + 433 pages / Softcover / ISBN 978-1-611974-95-9  
List Price $104.00 / SIAM Member Price $72.80 / Order Code **CS17**

To order or for more about this book, including links to its table of contents, preface, and index, please visit <http://bookstore.siam.org/CS17/>.

For more information about SIAM books, journals, conferences, memberships, or activities, contact:

SIAM  
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics  
3600 Market Street, 6th floor  
Philadelphia, PA 19104-2688  
800-447-SIAM (US and Canada)  
215-382-9800  
Fax 215-386-7999  

<service@siam.org>  
[www.siam.org](http://www.siam.org)  


---------------

## <a name="nav1">Call for Proposals: Gene Golub SIAM Summer School 2019</a>

SIAM is calling for [Letters of Intent](http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/summer_call.php) proposing topics and organizers for the 2019 Gene Golub SIAM Summer School (G2S3). Letters of Intent in all areas of applied and computational mathematics will be considered.

It is expected that the program will run two weeks for about 40 graduate students in 2019.  SIAM will contribute up to $116,900 towards the running of the summer school.

Information about the G2S3 program, including the composition of the G2S3 committee, can be found at <http://www.siam.org/about/com_golub.php>.

Information about the 2018 G2S3 can be found at [www.siam.org/students/g2s3](http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3) and the archives of earlier G2S3s can be found at <http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/archive.php>.

The deadline for Letters of Intent is January 31, 2018. For more information see <http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/summer_call.php>.

Respectfully,

Chen Greif, Chair of the SIAM Committee on Gene Golub SIAM Summer School




---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php">GAMM annual meeting 2018, Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra</a>
Dear colleagues,

the 89th Annual Meeting of the International Association of Applied
Mathematics and Mechanics (GAMM) will take place from the 19th to
the 23th of March 2018 in Munich, Germany.

On behalf of the organizing committee we would like to invite you,
your colleagues, postdocs, PhD and master students to take an active
part in Section S17

"APPLIED AND NUMERICAL LINEAR ALGEBRA".

We are happy to announce that there will be two special topical
lectures, each 40 minutes long.  We are greatly honored that the
following distinguished speakers have agreed to present their work
within Section S17:

-  Peter Butkovic (University of Birmingham)
-  Bart Vandereycken (University of Geneva)

Contributed talks in this session will have a length of 15 minutes
plus 5 minutes for discussion. Once the abstracts have been received,
depending on the number of submissions and allowed time slots, we may
have to select an appropriate number of abstracts for presentations.

Important dates:

- Deadline for abstract submission: December 4, 2017.

- Deadline for early bird registration: December 18, 2017.

- Online registration will close on February 5, 2018.

For more detailed information concerning the submission of abstracts,
registration and accommodation, please visit the conference website at

<http://jahrestagung.gamm-ev.de/index.php>

We are looking forward to seeing and welcoming you in Munich. Please
let us know if you have any questions regarding the scope or
organization of Section S17.

Best wishes,

Iveta Hnetynkova (<hnetynkova@cs.cas.cz>)  
Robert Luce (<robert.luce@epfl.ch>)  

(Section Organizers)



RNDr. Iveta Hnetynkova, PhD.  
Department of Numerical Mathematics  
Faculty of Mathematics and Physics  
Charles University  
Sokolovska 49/83  
186 75 Praha 8  

<hnetynkova@cs.cas.cz>


Robert Luce  
EPFL  
Station 8  
1015 Lausanne  
Suisse  

<robert.luce@epfl.ch>

---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org">ACM PASC18, Basel, July 02-04, 2018: First Call for Papers, Minisymposia and Posters Submissions</a>
The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is pleased to
announce that submissions will open on October 25 for the PASC18
Conference, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM). Submissions are invited for papers, minisymposia and poster
presentations. PASC18 will be held from July 02 to 04, 2018, at the
Congress Center Basel, Switzerland (<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org>)

The PASC18 Organizing Team is pleased to announce that submissions are
now open for minisymposium, paper and poster contributions. We look
forward to receiving your submissions through the online submission
portal (<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>).
Please note that the November 26th deadline for minisymposia proposals
is rapidly approaching!

**CONFERENCE**

PASC18 is the fifth edition of the PASC Conference series, an
international platform for the exchange of competences in scientific
computing and computational science, with a strong focus on methods,
tools, algorithms, application challenges, and novel techniques and
usage of high performance computing. The theme of PASC18 is Fast and
Big Data, Fast and Big Computation, emphasizing our vision of the
close coupling of data and computation. Exposing and expressing
massive and irregular parallelism in computational problems are key
challenges for exploiting the massive and heterogeneous parallelism
available in current, and expected in future, HPC systems, as well as
to find new ways of generating scientific insight from data and
models. Through its rich and interactive program, PASC18 aims to
highlight the computational approaches that computational scientists,
computer scientists, and practitioners employ today and will employ
over the next decades to address these challenges.

**CONTRIBUTIONS**

PASC18 welcomes submissions for minisymposium, paper, and poster
contributions that demonstrate innovative research in scientific
computing related to the following scientific domains:  

- Chemistry and Materials  
- Life Sciences  
- Physics  
- Climate and Weather  
- Solid Earth Dynamics  
- Engineering  
- Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
- Emerging Applications Domains (e.g. Social Sciences, Finance,...)  

Upcoming Submission Deadlines  

- Minisymposia: November 26, 2017  
- Papers: January 19, 2018  
- Posters: February 4, 2018  

**MINISYMPOSIA**

A minisymposium at PASC18 is a two-hour session of four presentations
on a topic of current importance in computational science that
showcases research related to domain science, applied mathematics,
computer science or software engineering. Proposals should describe
research that is of significant current interest to a given PASC
scientific domain, and ideally, have potential application to
additional domains. Proposals should include speakers from multiple
institutions and/or countries, and be designed such that the speakers
bring a range of different perspectives to the topic. PASC18
encourages gender balance and diversity.

**PAPERS**

The goal of the PASC papers program is to advance the quality of
interdisciplinary exchange between the various specific fields of
computational science and engineering. We welcome high-quality
contributions of original research related to scientific computing in
any of the eight PASC scientific domains. Papers will be evaluated by
domain experts primarily on their significance, technical soundness,
originality, and quality of communication. Papers accepted for PASC18
will be presented as talks, and published in the Proceedings of the
PASC Conference, accessible via the ACM Digital Library. A selection
of the highest quality papers may be given the opportunity of a
plenary presentation. In selecting papers for plenary presentation,
the Scientific Reviewing Committee will place particular weight on
impact, interdisciplinarity and interest to a broad audience.
Following the conference, authors will have the opportunity to further
develop their PASC papers for publication in a relevant,
computationally focused, domain-specific journal. Authors thus stand
to benefit from the rapid and broad dissemination of results afforded
by the conference venue and associated published proceedings, as well
as the impact associated with publication in a high-quality scientific
journal.

**POSTERS**

Poster presentations provide an ideal opportunity for the exchange of
ideas and expertise within and between the various computational
science domains represented at the conference. Poster submissions
should describe topical research related to domain science, applied
mathematics, computer science or software engineering. Poster
presenters will be given the possibility to "pitch" their posters to
the conference audience in a rapid-fire flash session, and posters
with the most stimulating content will be recognized in an award
ceremony on the final day of the conference.

SUBMISSION GUIDELINES:   
<https://pasc18.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>

**PAPERS, MINISYMPOSIA, AND POSTERS PROGRAM CHAIRS**  


-Sabine Roller (University of Siegen, Germany)  
-Jack Wells (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Postdoctoral Research Fellows at Emory University, Atlanta, GA</a>

Emory University seeks to fill multiple postdoctoral positions in Computer Science, Scientific Computing, and Data Science. We seek junior researchers and scholars to join vibrant research groups of faculty and students conducting pioneering scholarship in various areas.

Applications for Postdoctoral Research positions are invited from candidates with outstanding research records (or promise) in appropriate fields. Applicants should have (or soon receive) a PhD in Computer Science, Mathematics, Applied Math, Statistics, or a related discipline relevant to projects or areas listed below. Opportunities for teaching may be available, but these are primarily research positions. Specific priority areas for current searches are:

- *Scientific Computing*: Numerical linear algebra, partial differential equations, optimization, inverse problems, and applications to radiology, cardiology, geophysics and data science.   
- *Data Security and Privacy*: Methods for privacy-preserving computation and analytics in health and spatiotemporal domains. Strong math, computer science, and statistics skills desired.  
- *Natural Language Processing and Intelligent Information Access*: Natural language parsing, understanding, and generation; conversational search, intelligent assistants, and question answering.  
- *Data Analytics*: Mining heterogeneous data sources and high-dimensional analytics for health, spatiotemporal, and financial econometrics. Strong computer science/statistics skills desired.   
- *Computational Neuroscience*: Frameworks for biologically plausible network simulation to explore the role of feedback in neural fault tolerance and network structure.  
- *Machine Learning*: Architectures and efficient learning algorithms for deep neural networks, scalable algorithms. Strong math, computer science, and statistics skills desired.  
- *Storage and Caching Systems*: Multilevel storage tracing frameworks, very large scale caching, exabyte-scale storage, access, and transmission methods.  
- *Distributed Systems*: Fault-tolerance, program analysis, adaptive runtime systems, and energy-efficient computing.  Systems programming and quantitative analysis skills desired.  

Applications specifying one or more of the above areas and comprising a CV and research statement should be sent via email to <postdoc@mathcs.emory.edu>. Informal inquiries are also invited by email. Screening starts immediately and will continue until positions are filled. Faculty, research groups, and ongoing projects are at <http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/>

Emory University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and welcomes applications from women and members of minority groups.

---------------

## <a name="nav5">John von Neumann Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computational Science at Sandia National Laboratories</a>

Sandia National Laboratories invites outstanding candidates to apply for the 2018 John von Neumann Postdoctoral Research 
Fellowship in Computational Science. This prestigious fellowship is partially supported by the Applied Mathematics 
Research Program in the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research. The fellowship 
provides an exceptional opportunity for innovative research in computational mathematics and scientific computing on 
advanced computing architectures with application to a broad range of science and engineering problems of national 
importance. Applicants must have or soon receive a Ph.D. in applied/computational mathematics or related computational 
science and engineering disciplines. Applicants must have less than three years of postdoctoral experience. This 
appointment is for one year, with a possible renewal for a second year, and includes a highly competitive salary, moving 
expenses and a generous professional travel allowance.

Applications will be reviewed upon receipt. Complete applications received by December 1, 2017 will receive full 
consideration.

For more information, including application instructions, please see our web page at <http://www.cs.sandia.gov/VN_Web_Page/>.

Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F/D/V.

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Tenure-track faculty positions in Computer Science, Courant Institute, NYU</a>

New York University/Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences  
Department of Computer Science  
Tenure Track Faculty Positions  

The department expects to have several regular faculty positions and  invites candidates at all levels to apply. We will consider outstanding candidates in any area of computer science, in particular in scientific computing, verification, programming languages, machine learning and data science.

Faculty members are expected to be outstanding scholars and to participate in teaching at all levels from undergraduate to doctoral. New appointees will be offered competitive salaries and startup packages. In addition, we fully expect to secure affordable housing for the appointees within a short walking distance of the department. New York University is located in Greenwich Village, one of the most attractive residential areas of Manhattan.

Collaborative research with industry is facilitated by geographic proximity to computer science activities at AT&T, Facebook, Google, IBM, Bell Labs, NEC, and Siemens.

Please apply at <https://cs.nyu.edu/webapps/facapp/register>

To guarantee full consideration, applications should be submitted no later than December 1, 2017; however, this is not a hard deadline, as all candidates will be considered to the full extent feasible, until all positions 
are filled. Visiting positions may also be available.

EOE/AA/Minorities/Females/Veterans/Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Postdoctoral Fellowship in Data Science at AIMS South Africa</a>

Applications are invited for the DAAD funded postdoctoral fellowship in Data Science at AIMS South Africa under the supervision of Dr Bubacarr Bah, the German Research Chair for Data Science. The research area will be Data Science (in a very broad sense). For further details see: <https://www.aims.ac.za/en/opportunities/vacancies/postdoctoral-fellowships> 

Applications will be submitted through the DAAD portal found here: <https://www.daad.de/deutschland/stipendium/datenbank/en/21148-scholarship-database/?origin=136&status=2&subjectGrps=C&daad=1&q=postdoctoral%20fellowship&page=1&detail=57407689#bewerbung%20> 

PLEASE NOTE: In recognition of the higher cost of living in South Africa compared to other Sub-Saharan African countries, the salary offered by DAAD will be topped-up by AIMS South Africa and the amount of top-up will be negotiated with the candidate.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computing Sciences at Berkeley Lab</a>

Berkeley Lab is now accepting applications for the 2018 Luis W. Alvarez Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computing Sciences

Apply now for this prestigious fellowship! Researchers in computer science, applied mathematics or any computational science discipline who have received their Ph.D. within the last three years are encouraged to apply. The successful applicant will receive a competitive salary, professional travel allowance, relocation assistance, excellent benefits, and an opportunity to work in the San Francisco Bay Area. Since its founding in 2002, the fellowship has cultivated exceptional young scientists who have gone on to make outstanding contributions to computational and computing sciences. 



For more information, please visit: go.lbl.gov/alvarez

Berkeley Lab's Computing Sciences organization researches, develops, and deploys new tools and technologies to meet these needs and to advance research in such areas as global climate change, combustion, fusion energy, nanotechnology, biology, and astrophysics. Research areas in Computing Sciences include:

- Researching and developing software and hardware to support extreme-scale computing  
- Developing mathematical modeling for complex scientific problems  
- Designing algorithms to improve the performance of scientific applications  
- Researching computer architectures to improve system performance  
- Advancing extreme scientific data management  
- Evaluating new and promising computing and networking technologies  
- Researching methods to control and manage dynamic circuit networks  
- Developing large scale visualization and analytics technologies  
- Performing data analysis in distributed environments  

Application Process:  
For consideration applications are due November 13, 2017. Letters of Reference are due November 17, 2017. Following your application submission, you will receive a message with detailed instructions regarding the application process.

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Dec 04, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
