---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-04-03
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



Several conferences of possible interest to SIAG-LA members were announced this month on the SIAG-LA digest.

## CONTENTS

- [Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2017)](#nav0)
- [MOPTA 2017](#nav1)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav2)

---------------

## <a name="nav0"></a><a href="http://www.samsi.info/IMSM17">Graduate Student Modeling Workshop (IMSM 2017)</a>
A reminder that the 23rd Industrial Mathematical & Statistical Modeling (IMSM) Workshop for Graduate Students will take place at North Carolina State University, between 16-26 July 2017.  The workshop is sponsored by the Statistical and Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI) together with the Center for Research in Scientific Computation (CRSC) and the Department of Mathematics at North Carolina State University.

The IMSM workshop exposes graduate students in mathematics, engineering, and statistics to exciting real-world problems from industry and government. The workshop provides students with experience in a research team environment and exposure to possible career opportunities. On the first day, a Software Carpentry bootcamp will bring students up-to-date on their programming skills in Python/Matlab and R, and introduce them to version control systems and software repositories.

Local expenses and travel expenses will be covered for students at US institutions.  
The application deadline is April 15, 2017.  
Information is available at <http://www.samsi.info/IMSM17>  
and questions can be directed to <grad@samsi.info>

With best regards,
Mansoor Haider, Ilse Ipsen, Pierre Gremaud, and Ralph Smith

---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta/">MOPTA 2017</a>

A reminder of upcoming deadlines for the 15th annual "Modeling and OPtimization: Theory and Applications" (MOPTA) conference, held at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, USA, August 16-18, 2017.

MOPTA events bring together researchers from a broad range of optimization areas, working on theoretical or applied aspects, or both. There will be invited plenary talks from distinguished speakers, as well as organized sessions and contributed talks, spread over three days. 

Our objective is to offer presentations and discussions of exciting new developments from different areas of optimization; and to provide a convenient setting which allows increased interaction among the participants.  

We welcome contributed presentations. We will truly appreciate help if you are able to organize a session[s] centered around your expertise. MOPTA conference sessions consist of three 30-minute presentations, including Q&A. 

Please register and submit your abstract via the MOPTA 2017 website <http://coral.ie.lehigh.edu/~mopta/>. The conference website offers extensive further information.

Important Dates  
Abstract Submission Deadline May 20, 2017  
AIMMS Modeling Competition Deadline June 15, 2017 23:59 EST  
Early Registration Deadline June 30, 2017 (All speakers have to register by this date)  
Registration Deadline August 13, 2017 (After this date on-site registrations is still possible)  
MOPTA Conference 16-18 August, 2017  

Please feel free to contact me (<jdp416@lehigh.edu>) or Martin Takac (<Takac.MT@gmail.com>) if you have professional questions related to the event.

Please contact Kathy Rambo (<kgr0@lehigh.edu>) with your more general questions related to conference logistics. 

Thank you for your interest. Please feel free to pass along this information to your potentially interested colleagues. 

Best regards,

Janos D. Pinter, PhD, DSc


---------------

## <a name="nav2">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on May 01, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
