---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-10-02
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



This month the digest has a number of advertised positions, as well as information about the two available SIAG/LA prizes.

## CONTENTS

- [2021 SIAM ALA Conference](#nav0)
- [Announcing NEW SIAG/Linear Algebra Early Career Prize](#nav1)
- [SIAG/Linear Algebra Best Paper Prize](#nav2)
- [The Fifteenth Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods](#nav3)
- [2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18)](#nav4)
- [PostDoc Position, Numerical Linear Algebra, EPFL (CH)](#nav5)
- [Postdoctoral positions in numerical optimization - Argonne National Laboratory](#nav6)
- [Faculty position at University of Colorado](#nav7)
- [Sidney Fernbach Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Computing Sciences](#nav8)
- [Faculty Position, Computational Math, Emory University](#nav9)
- [Faculty Position, High Performance Computational Mathematics, Virginia Tech](#nav10)
- [Job openings in math at Purdue](#nav11)
- [Postdoctoral Fellowship at Berkeley Lab](#nav12)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav13)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">2021 SIAM ALA Conference</a>


The SIAG/LA Officers seek input on a location for the 
2021 SIAM Conference on Applied Linear Algebra.

Recommendations for locations within North America need not have a
local organizing committee, but it would be helpful to provide
justification on why the particular recommended location is a good
choice for the SIAM ALA Conference. Such recommendations can be
sent directly to Jim Nagy, SIAG/LA Chair, jnagy@emory.edu.

Note that it is possible to run the conference with limited or no SIAM
support or staff, or to hold the conference outside North America.
However, in these situations it is important to have a strong local
organizing team, and a formal proposal needs to be submitted to SIAM.  
For further details, see:  

<http://www.siam.org/meetings/proposals/siag_run.php>

The deadline for submitting recommendations and/or proposals
is 4 February 2018.

SIAG/LA Team:  
Jim Nagy, Chair, <jnagy@emory.edu>  
Alison Ramage, Vice Chair, <a.ramage@strath.ac.uk>   
Melina Freitag, Program Director, <m.a.freitag@bath.ac.uk>  
Jen Pestana, Secretary, <jennifer.pestana@strath.ac.uk>  


---------------

## <a name="nav1">Announcing NEW SIAG/Linear Algebra Early Career Prize</a>

We are excited to announce that SIAG/LA has established an Early Career Prize! The [SIAG/Linear Algebra Early Career Prize](http://www.siam.org/prizes/sponsored/siaglaecareer.php) will be awarded every three years to one post-PhD early career researcher in the field of applicable linear algebra for outstanding contributions to the field within six years of receiving the PhD or equivalent degree as of January 1 of the award year. The prize will be awarded every three years at the SIAM Conference on Applied Linear Algebra, beginning with the meeting in Hong Kong, May 4-8, 2018.

Eligibility Criteria:  
The candidate's work must be a significant research contribution to applicable linear algebra. The qualifying contribution(s) for which the award is made must be publicly available and may belong to any aspect of applicable linear algebra. The candidate must have been awarded their PhD no earlier than six (6) years prior to January 1 of the award year and no later than the nomination date. Current graduate students are not eligible for this award. For the 2018 award, the candidate must have been awarded their PhD no earlier than January 1, 2012, and no later than the nomination deadline.

Nomination Deadline:  
November 1, 2017

Submission link:  
<https://siam2018.secure-platform.com/a/solicitations/home/2>

Required Materials:

- Nominator’s Letter of Recommendation for Candidate  
- Candidate’s CV  
- 2 or 3 Letters of Support from experts in the field

Selection Committee:  
James Nagy (Chair), Emory University  
Matthias Bolten, Universitaet Wuppertal  
Heike Fassbender, TU Braunschweig  
Jennifer A. Scott, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory  
Jianlin Xia, Purdue University  

[Learn more](http://www.siam.org/prizes/) about our prize program and view all prizes with [open calls](http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations.php). Contact <prizeadmin@siam.org> with questions regarding nomination procedure.

SIAM Prize Program


---------------

## <a name="nav2">SIAG/Linear Algebra Best Paper Prize</a>

Nominate a paper now for the 2018 SIAG/Linear Algebra Best Paper Prize! The [SIAG/Linear Algebra Best Paper Prize](http://www.siam.org/prizes/sponsored/siagla.php) is awarded every three (3) years to the author(s) of the most outstanding paper, as determined by the selection committee, on a topic in applicable linear algebra published in English in a peer-reviewed journal within the four (4) calendar years preceding the award year. This paper prize has been awarded for 30 years as the SIAG/LA Prize; it has a new name.

Eligibility Criteria:  
The qualifying paper must contain significant research contributions to the field of linear algebra, as commonly defined in the mathematical literature, with direct or potential applications. The paper must have been published in English in a peer-reviewed journal in the four (4) calendar years preceding the award year. For the 2018 award, the paper must have been published between the dates of January 1, 2014 – December 31, 2017.

Nomination Deadline:  
October 15, 2017

Submission link:   
<http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations/nom_siagla.php>

Required Materials:  

- Nominator’s Letter of Recommendation for Candidate Paper  
- Bibliographic Citation for Candidate Paper  
- Digital Version of the Candidate Paper (PDF required)

Selection Committee:  
Alison Ramage (Chair), University of Strathclyde  
Beatrice Meini, University of Pisa  
Dominique Orban, Polytechnique Montréal  
Michael Overton, Courant Institute – New York University  
Raymond Tuminaro, Sandia National Laboratories  

[Learn more](http://www.siam.org/prizes/) about our prize program and view all prizes with [open calls](http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations.php). Contact <prizeadmin@siam.org> with questions regarding nomination procedure.

SIAM Prize Program


---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2018">The Fifteenth Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods</a>
The Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods, held every other
year, is the premiere conference on all aspects of iterative solution
methods and their applications. The meeting is organized in cooperation
with SIAM.

Highlighted topics for the 2018 meeting are:

* AMG for nonsymmetric systems
* Asynchronous iterative solvers
* Eigenvalue and singular value methods and applications
* Inverse problems, regularization
* Iterative methods in applications (earth systems, energy,
fluids, electromagnetics, imaging)
* Iterative solvers at extreme scale and on high concurrency
node architectures
* Iterative solvers for matrix equations
* Iterative solvers in data science and engineering
* Optimization of Complex Problems/Systems (PDE-constrained
optimization, optimization under uncertainty, and
uncertainty, and simulation-based optimization)
* Nonlinear solvers
* Randomized iterative solvers and preconditioners
* Rank-structured solvers and preconditioners
* Robust and scalable iterative solution of couple
multi-physics problems
* Solvers for indefinite systems
* Surrogate modeling/model reduction
* Uncertainty quantification/PDEs with random data


Important Deadlines:

Student competition papers: January 10, 2018

Author abstracts: January 15, 2018

Early registration: January 19, 2018

Lodging: Please reserve early as rooms are limited (we recommend
booking no later than February 21 as any unclaimed rooms
will be released after that date)

For additional information, see

<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2018>

---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="https://www.siam.org/meetings/pp18/">2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18)</a>
The 2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18) will be held at the
University of Bologna in Bologna, Italy, June 5-8, 2018.
Please note the upcoming deadlines for submission of minisymposium
proposals (October 1) and contributed lectures, minisymposium
presentations, and posters (November 5). Further conference
information can be found below and at
<https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it>.

-----
2018 SIAM Conference on Imaging Science (IS18)  
Location: University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy  
Dates: June 5-8, 2018  
Website: <https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it>

Sponsors:  
The conference is sponsored by SIAM Activity Group on Imaging Science
(SIAG/IS) and the Bologna Committee for IS Conference 2018 (BCIS18).
It is being held in cooperation with the IEEE Signal Processing
Society (IEEE) and Gesellschaft f&uuml;r Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik
e.V. (GAMM).

Conference Co-Chairs:  
Omar Ghattas (The University of Texas at Austin)  
Fiorella Sgallari (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  

Scientific Committee:  
Marcelo Bertalm&iacute;o (University Pompeu Fabra)  
Julianne Chung (Virginia Tech)  
Per Christian Hansen (Technical University of Denmark)  
Jari Kaipio (The University of Auckland)  
Eric Miller (Tufts University)  
Mila Nikolova (CMLA - CNRS ENS Cachan)  
Ronny Ramlau (Kepler University Linz and Johann Radon Institute)  
Carola-Bibiane Sch&ouml;nlieb (University of Cambridge)  
Gabriele Steidl (Technische Universit&auml;t Kaiserslautern)  
Xue-Cheng Tai (Hong Kong Baptist University)  
Laura Waller (University of California, Berkeley)  
Brendt Wohlberg (Los Alamos National Laboratory)  

Organizing Committee:  
Carolina Beccari (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Giulio Casciola (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Salvatore Cuomo (Dept. Mathematics and Applications "Renato Caccioppoli", University of Naples)  
Luigi Di Stefano (Dept. Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna)  
Giovanni Dore (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Maurizio Falcone (Dept. Mathematics, University of Rome "La Sapienza")  
Luca Formaggia (Dept. Mathematics - Milan Polytechnic)  
Patrizio Frosini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Germana Landi (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Alessandro Lanza (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Damiana Lazzaro (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Elena Loli Piccolomini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Roberto Mecca (University of Bologna and University of Cambridge)  
Serena Morigi (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Michele Piana (Dept. Mathematics, University of Genoa)  
Giulia Scalet (Dept. Civil Engineering and Architecture, University of Pavia)  
Federica Sciacchitano (Dept. Mathematics, University of Genoa)  
Valeria Simoncini (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Giulia Spaletta (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  
Fabiana Zama (Dept. Mathematics, University of Bologna)  

During the conference the Organizing Committee will give two special
awards to promote and reward new ideas:  

- IS18 best poster award: 2000 Euros
- IS18 best challenging application award (among posters and minisymposia): 1000 Euros

Important Dates and Deadlines:  

- October 01, 2017 - Minisymposium proposals   
- November 05, 2017 - Contributed Lecture and Minisymposium Presentation Abstracts  
- November 05, 2017 - Poster Abstracts  
- April 04, 2018  - Early registration deadline  

Submission information: <https://www.siam-is18.dm.unibo.it/submissions>  
Additional information: email <siam-is2018@unibo.it>

---------------

## <a name="nav5">PostDoc Position, Numerical Linear Algebra, EPFL (CH)</a>

The Chair of Numerical Algorithms and High-Performance Computing
([anchp.epfl.ch](http://anchp.epfl.ch)) is inviting applications for a postdoctoral
researcher. The research project focuses on the development, analysis,
and application of low-rank matrix and tensor methods.

Candidates are expected to have a strong background in numerical
linear algebra. Preference will be given to candidates with demonstrated
experience in low-rank approximation, randomized algorithms and/or
high-performance computing.

The position is available from January 1, 2018 but there is flexibility.
The initial appointment is for two years with the possibility of extension.
Some minor teaching responsibilities will be expected.

Applications will be considered until the position is filled.

Applicants should prepare a CV and a list of 3 references that can be
contacted. This should be forwarded as a single PDF file to Mrs Samantha
Bettschen (<samantha.bettschen@epfl.ch>).

Questions about the position or requests for further information can
directed to Prof Daniel Kressner (<daniel.kressner@epfl.ch>).

EPFL is an equal opportunities employer and places particular emphasis
on fostering career opportunities for women. Qualified women are
therefore strongly encouraged to apply.

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Postdoctoral positions in numerical optimization - Argonne National Laboratory</a>

The Mathematics and Computer Science (MCS) Division at Argonne National
Laboratory invites outstanding candidates to apply for postdoctoral
positions in the following areas.

- Developing and implementing algorithms at the intersection of optimization and statistics:
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/post_doc/en_US/gateway.do?functionName=viewFromLink&localeCode=en-us&jobPostId=5596&source=Twitter&sourceType=NETWORKING_SITE>

- PDE-constrained optimization:
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/post_doc/en_US/gateway.do?functionName=viewFromLink&localeCode=en-us&jobPostId=5599&source=Twitter&sourceType=NETWORKING_SITE>

- Other areas of optimization (e.g., multiobjective, discrete), applied mathematics, and statistics:
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/post_doc/en_US/gateway.do?functionName=viewFromLink&localeCode=en-us&jobPostId=4935&source=Twitter&sourceType=NETWORKING_SITE>

The appointments will be in the MCS Division ([http://www.mcs.anl.gov](www.mcs.anl.gov)), which is a
leader in the design of numerical algorithms, development of software tools and
technology, and simulation of applications of interest to the U.S. Department of
Energy. Argonne is located in the southwestern Chicago suburbs, offering the
advantages of affordable housing, good schools, and easy access to the cultural
attractions of the city.

Please email Jeffrey Larson (<jmlarson@anl.gov>) and Todd Munson (<tmunson@mcs.anl.gov>) with any questions.

Flexibility is available in start dates.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Faculty position at University of Colorado</a>

The Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Colorado at
Boulder invites applications for a tenure track faculty position at the
Assistant Professor level to begin August 2018. The position is in the
area of high dimensional data analysis (big data), with possible areas
of emphasis including nonlinear optimization, analysis in
high-dimensional spaces, randomized projections, probabilistic numerics,
harmonic analysis, theoretical deep learning, and related areas.
However, exceptional candidates in all fields of Applied Mathematics may
be considered.

For the full advertisement as well as instructions on how to apply,
please see: <https://tinyurl.com/APPMCU2017>.

We start considering applications October 16, 2017, so the deadline is
coming up quickly.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Sidney Fernbach Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Computing Sciences</a>

The Computation Directorate at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) is soliciting applications for the Sidney Fernbach Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Computing Sciences.  This fellowship will be awarded to one outstanding candidate with exceptional talent, scientific track record, and potential for significant achievements in computational mathematics, scientific computing, or computer science.  The fellowship is named after Sidney Fernbach, former Director of the Computation Department at LLNL and one of the pioneers in high performance scientific computing. The fellow will have the freedom to pursue their own research agenda under the guidance of an LLNL staff scientist who serves as a mentor.  The appointment will be for one year renewable for a second year. 

Successful candidates will work in a cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research environment with accomplished researchers and will also have access to Livermore Computing's world-class HPC environment.  Fellows will receive a highly competitive salary, moving expenses, and a professional travel allowance.

LLNL is a premier research and development institution for science and technology applied to national security that has been a leader in scientific and high-performance computing for decades.  The Computation Directorate in the laboratory conducts world-class, collaborative scientific research and development in high performance computing, computational physics, numerical mathematics, computer science, and data science.  Major research thrust areas include scalable algorithms and software for linear and nonlinear solvers, partial differential equations, adaptive mesh refinement, verification and uncertainty quantification, large-scale data analysis, scientific visualization, performance tools, programming models, and compiler analysis.

Interested applicants can find more information about eligibility, benefits, and the application process on the Fernbach Fellowship web page (<http://computation.llnl.gov/fernbach>).  Deadline for application is November 5, 2017.

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is managed by Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. for the National Nuclear Security Administration within the Department of Energy.  We are an equal opportunity employer with a commitment to workforce diversity.

---------------

## <a name="nav9">Faculty Position, Computational Math, Emory University</a>

Emory University's Mathematics & Computer Science Department invites
applications for a tenure-track faculty position in Computational
Mathematics, to begin in Fall 2018. Appointments are expected to be at
the Assistant Professor level, but truly exceptional candidates may be
considered for senior appointments. Applicants must demonstrate
outstanding research ability and have a PhD in Mathematics, Computer
Science, or a closely related field. Applicants should also have
strong records, or promise, as undergraduate and graduate
teachers. Ideal candidates will have interdisciplinary interests that
complement and enhance Emory's current and vibrant research strengths
in numerical linear algebra, networks, inverse problems, numerical
optimization, numerical partial differential equations, and
computational fluid dynamics. For more details on Emory's faculty,
graduate students, postdocs, research and teaching activities in
Computational Mathematics, see
<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>

Applications consisting of a cover letter, CV, research and teaching
statements, and three letters of recommendation directly from
recommenders can be submitted via <https://apply.interfolio.com/45261>
Informal inquiries about the position are also invited by email to
<compmathsearch2017@mathcs.emory.edu>. Screening starts December 1,
2017, and will continue until the position is filled. For additional
information about the department, please see <http://www.mathcs.emory.edu>

Emory University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action/
Disability/Veteran employer. Women, minorities, persons with
disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply. Emory University
is committed to student and faculty diversity, equity, and
inclusion. In your cover letter or in a separate statement, please
reflect upon your experience and vision regarding the teaching and
mentorship of students from diverse backgrounds.

Emory University is a top-ranked private institution recognized
internationally for its outstanding colleges, graduate and
professional schools, and one of the world's leading health care
systems. Emory scholars and experts generate more that $574 million
dollars in research funding annually while also highly valuing
excellence in teaching. Emory's beautiful campus is a part of the
energetic Atlanta metropolitan area, which is home to more than five
million people and has a diversity of cultural, social, entertainment,
shopping and recreational options. Atlanta, often referred to as "the
City in a Forest", has mild winters, long and beautiful spring and
fall seasons, and is home to the world's busiest international
airport, providing ready access to global travel.

---------------

## <a name="nav10">Faculty Position, High Performance Computational Mathematics, Virginia Tech</a>

**Virginia Tech Department of Mathematics Faculty Position in High Performance Computational Mathematics**

The Virginia Tech Department of Mathematics anticipates a tenure-track opening in High Performance Computational Mathematics with a start date of August 10, 2018, at our Blacksburg, VA, campus. The successful candidate will have a strong background in computational mathematics and high performance computing.  Possible specialties include, but are not limited to, mathematical aspects of numerical linear algebra, randomized numerical linear algebra, inverse problems, numerical PDE modeling, PDE solvers, uncertainty quantification, scientific computing, scalable data analytics, or large-scale topological data analysis. Application areas of interest include, but are not limited to, geophysics, physics, biology, or economics. 

The successful applicant will have the opportunity to collaborate with faculty across the university on the Intelligent Infrastructure for Human-Centered Communities Destination Area (<http://provost.vt.edu/destination-areas.html>). Priority areas of interest for this initiative include modeling, simulation, analytics, and decision-support environments that leverage modern high performance computing and big data for quantitative understanding of large-scale systems.

Appointment as an Assistant Professor of Mathematics is anticipated, but exceptional senior candidates will be considered for positions of Associate Professor of Mathematics or Professor of Mathematics. Teaching and service duties will be split between the Mathematics Department and the Computational Modeling and Data Analytics (CMDA) program. The CMDA program is a collaborative effort involving faculty members from several departments, coordinated by the College of Science's Academy of Integrated Science (<https://www.ais.science.vt.edu/index.html>). The college's Academy of Integrated Science and the university's Destination Areas are manifestations of Virginia Tech's commitment to its land-grant mission of using leadership in teaching, research, and service to address society's pressing problems. 

Job requirements include a Ph.D. in mathematics or a related field at the time of appointment. The successful candidate will be expected to establish a distinguished research program and to provide effective instruction and advising to a diverse population of undergraduate and graduate students, with a particular emphasis on enhancing the advanced high performance computing aspects of the Mathematics and CMDA curricula. Responsibilities include: continuing development of professional capabilities and scholarly activities, including travel to professional conferences; curriculum development; participation in department, college, and university governance; and professional service. Occasional travel will be required.

An online application is required. To complete the online application, go to <http://www.hr.vt.edu>, choose Prospective Employees, then choose Search Virginia Tech  Jobs (direct link <https://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/79993>), and choose the Mathematics Department or choose posting number TR0170122. Please include a cover letter, a CV, a research statement, and a teaching statement as part of the online application. Each applicant should follow the instructions in the online application system to request that four references submit letters of recommendation, or letters can be emailed to <compmath17@math.vt.edu>. Additional information about position requirements and responsibilities can be found at <http://www.hr.vt.edu> or <https://www.math.vt.edu>.The faculty handbook (available at <http://www.provost.vt.edu>) gives a complete description of faculty responsibilities. As part of the hiring process, the successful applicant must pass a criminal background check. Questions about the search may be addressed to <compmath17@math.vt.edu>.

Applications received by October 30, 2017, will receive full consideration. Virginia Tech is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Institution. Virginia Tech has a strong commitment to the principle of diversity and, in that spirit, seeks a broad spectrum of candidates including women, minorities, veterans, and people with disabilities. Individuals with disabilities desiring accommodations in the application process should notify Ms. Lori Berry (<loberry@vt.edu>, 540-231-6536) or call TTY 1-800- 828-1120 by the application deadline. Virginia Tech is the recipient of a National Science Foundation ADVANCE Institutional Transformation Award and is committed to increasing the participation of women in academic science and engineering careers. Additionally, Virginia Tech is supportive in addressing the needs of dual-career couples.

---------------

## <a name="nav11">Job openings in math at Purdue</a>

Dear Colleagues,

Purdue University is recruiting to fill several faculty positions in Mathematics:  

- A named, full-professor position.  
- Two assistant professor positions.  
- Several 3-year postdocs.   

All areas of mathematics will be considered, and applications from candidates from underrepresented groups are welcomed;  Purdue is committed to advancing diversity in all areas of faculty effort.  More information is at 
<br><http://www.math.purdue.edu/jobs/faculty>

Please share this information with colleagues who may be interested.

Best regards,  
Greg Buzzard

---------------

## <a name="nav12">Postdoctoral Fellowship at Berkeley Lab</a>

Dear Colleagues,

Performance and Algorithms Research Group of the Computational Research Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) has immediate openings for multiple postdoctoral fellow positions. We are looking for candidates with expertise and interest in parallel algorithm development, performance optimization, or (ideally) both. The problem areas are broad and include (but not limited to) Fusion Energy, Catalysis, Genomics, Graph Analytics, and Sparse Solvers.

Applications are accepted until the position is filled. More details and instructions to apply can be found here: <https://lbl.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=84106>  


Thanks!

Aydin Bulu&ccedil;  
Staff Scientist, Computational Research Division, Berkeley Lab  
Adjunct Assistant Professor, EECS, University of California, Berkeley<br>
<http://graphblas.org/~aydin>

---------------

## <a name="nav13">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Nov 06, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
