---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-03-06
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



I hope those of you who were at the SIAM CSE meeting in Atlanta found it an enjoyable and productive conference!

## CONTENTS

- [Blog post on tips for undertaking a PhD](#nav0)
- [Deadline extension: SIAM Workshop on Parameter Space Dimension Reduction](#nav1)
- [New book announcement](#nav2)
- [Update on SPM-2017](#nav3)
- [Registration is now open - Preconditioning 2017](#nav4)
- [2017 SIAM Workshop on Network Science](#nav5)
- [Tenure-Track Faculty Positions, Computing and Software, McMaster University, Ontario, Canada](#nav6)
- [Argonne National Laboratory seeking Deputy Division Director for Applied Mathematics and Statistics](#nav7)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav8)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Blog post on tips for undertaking a PhD</a>

The next of our blog posts from early career researchers is available from our webiste. [Sam Relton](http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/~srelton/), a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Manchester, has kindly let us  reproduce a post from his [blog](https://samrelton.wordpress.com) in which he  gives his top tips for a successful doctorate. The post can be found [here](<http://siags.siam.org/siagla//2017/03/06/relton.html>). 


---------------

## <a name="nav1">Deadline extension: SIAM Workshop on Parameter Space Dimension Reduction</a>

The deadline for submissions to the SIAM Workshop on Parameter Space Dimension Reduction (DR17) has been extended to March 13! See the website for submission details:            <http://www.siam.org/meetings/dr17/submissions.php>

The DR17 workshop brings together researchers across mathematics, statistics, and engineering to explore a range of emerging techniques for parameter space dimension reduction. 

Topics and themes:    

* active subspaces  
* basis adaptation  
* inverse regression  
* sufficient dimension reduction  
* sloppy models  
* sensitivity analysis  
* ridge recovery and approximation  
* deterministic and statistical parameter estimation  
* applications with science and engineering simulations or data sets  

Plenary speakers:  

* Francesca Chiaromonte, Penn State University    
* Mark Transtrum, Brigham Young University    

DR17 Co-chairs:  

*  Paul Constantine, Colorado School of Mines  
* David Gleich, Purdue University  

Organizing committee:  

* Juan J. Alonso, Stanford University  
* Nathan Baker, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory  
* R. Dennis Cook, University of Minnesota  
* Emilie Dufresne, University of Nottingham  
* Michael S. Eldred, Sandia National Laboratories  
* Michael Frenklach, University of California Berkeley  
* Roger Ghanem, University of Southern California  
* Omar Ghattas, University of Texas at Austin  
* Mark Girolami, Imperial College London  
* Gianluca Iaccarino, Stanford University  
* Youssef Marzouk, Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
* Gianluigi Rozza, Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanti   
* Ralph Smith, North Carolina State University  
* Michael Wakin, Colorado School of Mines  
* Rachel Ward, University of Texas at Austin  
* vBrian J. Williams, Los Alamos National Laboratory  


---------------

## <a name="nav2">New book announcement</a>

We are pleased to announce the publication of the volume  

M. Benzi and V. Simoncini (Editors),  
"Exploiting Hidden Structure in Matrix Computations:  
Algorithms and Applications (Cetraro, Italy 2015)",  
Lecture Notes in Mathematics vol. 2173, CIME Foundation Subseries,  
Springer, 2016 (pp. ix + 406), ISBN 978-3-319-49886-7.  

The volume collects the text of the lectures given at the
CIME Summer Course of the same title in Cetraro (Italy) in
June 2015.  The table of contents is as follows:

M. Benzi and V. Simoncini, Preface

C. F. Van Loan, Structured Matrix Problems from Tensors

D. A. Bini, Matrix Structures in Queuing Models

J. Ballani and D. Kressner, Matrices with Hierarchical Low-Rank Structures

M. Benzi, Localization in Matrix Computations: Theory and Applications

H. Z. Munthe-Kaas, Groups and Symmetries in Numerical Linear Algebra

The volume is also available as an eBook.

For further information, see

<http://www.springer.com/us/book/9783319498867>


Michele Benzi (Emory University)  
Valeria Simoncini (Universit&agrave; di Bologna)


---------------

## <a name="nav3">Update on SPM-2017</a>

This is a Solid Modeling Association (SMA) update on exciting recent developments for the International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017) (<https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu>) to take place in Berkeley, CA on June 19-23, 2017.

* We have five financial sponsors supporting S3PM: Autodesk (Gold), Siemens (Gold), PARC (Gold), University of Wisconsin (Gold), Elsevier (Silver). Thank you sponsors!  
* We have "in cooperation" status with ACM and with Eurographics.  
* We have applied for NSF funding to support student participants.  

The deadline for submitting minisymposia proposals is April 15, 2017. More information can be found [here](https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/index.html#mini).  Also, please help us to promote this CfP by forwarding to colleagues and students. Hope to see you there.


---------------

## <a name="nav4">Registration is now open - Preconditioning 2017</a>

Registration is now open for the International Conference on 
Preconditioning Techniques for Scientific and Industrial Applications, 
which will take place in Vancouver, Canada, on July 31 - August 2, 2017. 

Please point your browser to   
<http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~greif/precon17/index.html> and follow the links.

Best wishes,
The Organizing Committee: Chen Greif, Esmond Ng, Yousef Saad and Andy Wathen





---------------

## <a name="nav5"></a><a href="http://www.siam.org/meetings/ns17/">2017 SIAM Workshop on Network Science</a>
Registration is currently open for the 2017 SIAM Workshop on Network Science, which will take place in Pittsburgh, PA, USA on 13-14 July 2017. The workshop is co-located with the SIAM Annual Meeting.

Invited speakers:  

* Mark Newman, University of Michigan  
* Stefano Allesina, University of Chicago  

Abstract submissions are due February 27. 

Michelle Girvan and Mason Porter (co-organizers)

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Tenure-Track Faculty Positions, Computing and Software, McMaster University, Ontario, Canada</a>

The Faculty of Engineering at McMaster University has a reputation for innovative programs, cutting-edge research, leading faculty, and aspiring students. It has earned a strong reputation as a centre for academic excellence and innovation. The Faculty has approximately 180 faculty members, along with close to 4,500 undergraduate and 1,000 graduate students. The Faculty of Engineering promotes a nurturing and inclusive environment where opportunities are made available for personal growth and professional development.

To enrich its flourishing research programs, the Department of Computing and Software at McMaster University is seeking outstanding individuals for multiple tenure-track faculty positions at the rank of Assistant Professor.  However, a more senior level appointment may be possible for exceptional candidates.  The Department is slated to grow significantly over the next few years, and new hires will have the opportunity to influence future directions.  

Qualified candidates in the following areas are strongly encouraged to apply: machine learning, smart systems, high performance computing with applications to data analytics, and software engineering. Exceptional candidates in related areas will also be considered. Candidates must have demonstrated the potential for excellence in research, as well as having strong communication skills and being committed to education.  They are also expected to have demonstrated an ability to work effectively with individuals from diverse communities and cultures.  The successful candidates will be expected to establish a dynamic research program in their fields of expertise, to become engaging teachers and mentors at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and to make strong commitment to curricula development.  They will also be expected to explore opportunities for research collaborations across the Faculty of Engineering, and across the University. Successful candidates are expected to become registered with Professional Engineers Ontario.

The successful candidates will have the opportunity to engage with faculty members and research staff associated with McMaster's world-class research and teaching laboratory facilities in software and data intensive systems and data analytics areas, including: the McMaster Centre for Software Certification (McSCert), the McMaster Automotive Resource Centre (MARC), the Shared Hierarchical Academic Research Computing Network  (SharcNet), Advanced Optimization Laboratory (AdvOL), Computing Infrastructure Research Centre (CIRC), and the MacData Institute.

All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply.  However, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given priority.  These positions will ideally commence July 1, 2017.  The selection process will begin by March 1, 2017, and continue until the positions are filled.

Applications, including cover letter, statement of research and teaching interests, curriculum vitae, research samples (published articles or other evidences of research contributions), evidence of teaching effectiveness, and names and contact information of 3 to 5 references, should be sent to Laurie Leblanc at <leblanl@mcmaster.ca>. 

McMaster University's beautiful campus is at the north-west end of Hamilton on the western end of Lake Ontario, between the Niagara Escarpment, conservation lands, and the Royal Botanical Gardens.  Hamilton, with a population of over 500,000, is a vibrant community with easy access to Toronto and the Niagara region.  It is located at the northern tip of an ecological zone commonly called the Carolinian Forest that encompasses the southern-most portion of Ontario but occurs nowhere else in Canada.  As a result, Hamilton is home to many unique species of plants and animals that only occur here because the summer climate approaches that of North and South Carolina in the United States. 

McMaster University is strongly committed to employment equity within its community and to recruiting a diverse faculty and staff.  The University encourages applications from all qualified candidates including women, persons with disabilities, First Nations, Metis and Inuit persons, members of racialized communities and LGBTQ-identified persons.  If you require any form of accommodation throughout the recruitment and selection procedure, please contact the Human Resources Service Centre at (905) 525 9140, Extension 222-HR (22247).

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Argonne National Laboratory seeking Deputy Division Director for Applied Mathematics and Statistics</a>

The Mathematics and Computer Science (MCS) Division at Argonne National Laboratory invites applications for the position of Deputy Division Director for Applied Mathematics and Statistics.  The position provides the opportunity to help MCS continue to grow, coordinate applied mathematics and numerical software research and development under the exascale computing project, and define the strategic vision for applied mathematics and statistics at Argonne and beyond.  The ideal candidate will possess a Ph.D. in applied mathematics, statistics, or a related discipline; demonstrated management and leadership skills in a high-tech organization; broad knowledge and high scientific reputation in applied mathematics or statistics; and a demonstrated ability to discern and influence promising research directions from a national and DOE Office of Science perspective.  Candidates with questions about the position are encouraged to contact the current DDD for Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Paul Hovland (<hovland@mcs.anl.gov>), or MCS Interim Division Director Robert Ross (<rross@mcs.anl.gov>).  Interested candidates should apply at <http://bit.ly/2kOT4aF>.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Apr 03, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
