---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-06-05
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---

As conference season gets into full swing, we hope to see many of you in the coming months!

## CONTENTS

- [Preconditioning   2017  conference  in  Vancouver,   Canada - Travel funding](#nav0)
- [S3PM-2017 in Berkeley, CA - Travel funding](#nav1)
- [Sparse Days](#nav2)
- [ Postdoc in matrix computations & fault tolerance at Purdue University](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Preconditioning   2017  conference  in  Vancouver,   Canada - Travel funding</a>

We are happy to  inform participants that  funding (NSF) is now 
available to support  travel   of  junior   U.S.   participants 
to   the  preconditioning-2017 conference, July 31-August 2, 2017
Vancouver, Canada  (see <http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~greif/precon17/>).

Restrictions apply and  they are as follows: You must  be US permanent
resident  or citizen, and a  junior researcher (defined as someone who
received the PhD less than 6 years before the conference) and you must
have no current funding from NSF.  To apply please send a cover letter
to <saad@umn.edu>  which certifies that  you are eligible to  receive an
award according to  the rules stated above.  Include a  recent CV, the
name of  someone we can contact  for a recommendation letter,  and, if
you are presenting  a paper or poster, the title  and abstract of your
presentation.

---------------


## <a name="nav1">S3PM-2017 in Berkeley, CA - Travel funding</a>

Travel funding is available for eligible early-career participants of 
S3PM-2017: the International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, and 
Physical Modeling, June 19-23, Berkeley, CA, USA: [s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu](https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/). 

The NSF has provided generous funding (final processing approved) to support 
registration and travel for a number of students enrolled in US educational 
institutions (including domestic and international student); or US persons 
(i.e., citizens of lawful permanent residents) who are graduate students in 
universities outside of the US. Applications from women and under-represented 
minorities are particularly encouraged. Click [here](https://goo.gl/5lZHy9) to apply now!

---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://cerfacs.fr/en/sparse-days-2017-at-cerfacs/">Sparse Days</a>

The annual Sparse Days meeting will be held at CERFACS in Toulouse 
on 7th and 8th September 2017 although (see below) it might be 
extended to start on 6th September. 

Registration is free but we ask people who are coming to register 
now so we can judge numbers to see whether the extra day is needed 
and how large a lecture room we will need. The reason for this is 
that much preliminary interest has been shown because the meeting 
will inter alia celebrate a significant birthday of Professor 
Iain Duff, who was Project Leader of the Parallel Algorithms Team 
from its inception in 1987 until 2010 and is still a consultant to 
the Team. 

You should register before July 16th by completing the online form: 
<http://cerfacs.fr/en/sparse-days-2017-at-cerfacs/> (English), or 
<http://cerfacs.fr/colloque-sparse-days-2017-cerfacs/> (French) 
indicating whether you want to give a talk. We will not have any 
parallel sessions hence the need to know this when planning the 
schedule. Although an emphasis will be on parallel aspects, any talk 
that has an association with sparsity is welcome. The length for a 
talk plus questions is 30 minutes. 

Information on accommodation can be found on the web page and a 
limited amount of free on site accommodation should be available for 
students. Students wanting to apply for this accommodation should 
contact Brigitte Yzel on <yzel@cerfacs.fr>. 

A celebratory conference dinner will be held on Thursday 
September 7th that will hopefully be heavily subsidised, especially 
for students.

---------------

## <a name="nav3"> Postdoc in matrix computations & fault tolerance at Purdue University</a>

We are looking for a full time postdoctoral researcher in the Computer
Science Department at Purdue to work on a new class of algorithms in 
numerical linear algebra that are robust to faults and failures in 
distributed systems and the next generation of exascale machines.

An ideal candidate will have expertise and experience in:  

 * matrix computations and sparse matrix computations, with some 
  background on the convergence theory of stationary algorithms or 
  Krylov methods    
* distributed and large scale implementations of matrix computations
  in engineering applications, such as linear system solvers, 
  eigenvalue computations, and advanced matrix-based data analytics 
  (e.g. PCA, clustering, etc.) 
   

We will consider exceptional candidates with experience in only one of
these areas who wish to develop expertise in the other area. 
The postdoctoral advisors are David Gleich & Ananth Grama.

Please send application materials to <matrix-postdoc-2017@cs.purdue.edu>

Materials should consist of:  

* A 1-2 paragraph introduction explaining why you want the position.   
* A standard CV with your publications highlighted.  
* Two to four people who could provide references.  
* (Optional, but encouraged) an annotated CV explaining your specific
contribution to 1-3 publications on your CV in 1-2 paragraphs each. 
Highlight the intellectual depth and engineering efforts in your work.  

Applications will be screened immediately upon receipt and will be 
accepted until the position has been filled. The starting
date for the postdoc is negotiable, but no later than Fall 2017.
This information can be easily shared through the web-page 
<https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/dgleich/matrix-postdoc-2017.html>

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jul 03, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.