---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-07-03
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



It was great to see so many of you at meetings this month and to hear about many of the exciting new ideas in our field.

## CONTENTS

- [SIAM News and Randomized Algorithms](#nav0)
- [Postdoc and PhD positions, Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium](#nav1)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav2)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">SIAM News and Randomized Algorithms</a>


SIAM News seeks articles written from a broad prospective, to be
accessible to a multidisciplinary readership with a focus on
applications.  I would like to encourage all of our SIAG/LA members to
consider writing articles for SIAM News. In particular, the SIAM News
Board is considering a special issue on various aspects of randomized
algorithms. If you have questions about this, or other topics relevant
to linear algebra for SIAM News, please contact the SIAG/LA SIAM News
Liaison:  

Rosemary Renaut  
School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences  
Arizona State University  
<renaut@asu.edu>  
<http://math.la.asu.edu/~rosie>      



---------------

## <a name="nav1">Postdoc and PhD positions, Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven, Belgium</a>

The Numerical Analysis and Applied Mathematics (NUMA) research unit of the Department of Computer Science at the KU Leuven - University of Leuven (Belgium) invites applications for up to 6 doctoral and 3 postdoctoral positions. 

NUMA consists of 38 members (professors, postdoctoral and PhD researchers).  We develop, analyse and implement numerical algorithms for applications in science and engineering. We focus on algorithmic innovations, and on the analysis of accuracy and efficiency. Our research relies on mathematical insight, design of algorithms, and software development.

NUMA has vacancies on several recently acquired research projects for researchers with various expertises. Applicants should have a master's degree in (Applied) Mathematics, Computer Science, Engineering or Physics, should have experience in programming and a general interest in the development and analysis of numerical methods, and/or their application in engineering and science.  We are currently looking for candidates with specific interest/expertise in one (or more) of the following domains:  

- Numerical (multi)-linear algebra: polynomial computations and iterative methods  
- Multiscale and stochastic simulation methods  
- Large-scale PDE-constrained optimization and uncertainty quantification  
- Parallel algorithms and metaheuristics for cutting and packing problems  
- High-dimensional approximation, simulation and analysis  
- Computational methods for control  
- Data driven network science  

We offer a stimulating environment at a European top university, a well-equipped and experienced multidisciplinary research unit, a personalized PhD trajectory, with attention paid to transferable skills development and a competitive wage.Senior postdocs will get the opportunity to become involved in project management.

For more information on the research unit and possible supervisors, visit
<https://wms.cs.kuleuven.be/groups/natw/>

The positions at the postdoctoral level are for one year with the possibility of extension to a second year. The positions at the predoctoral level will be initially for one year. After a positive evaluation, this position can be extended for three more years.
Candidates are invited to submit their application (including a detailed CV, a motivation letter, and two letters of recommendation) via the websites
<https://icts.kuleuven.be/apps/jobsite/vacatures/54213421> (for the PhD positions) and
<https://icts.kuleuven.be/apps/jobsite/vacatures/54218508> (for the postdoc positions).

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Aug 07, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
