---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2017-01-02
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



Happy New Year! We hope 2017 is a happy and productive year for you all.

## CONTENTS

- [2017 SIAM Workshop on Network Science (13-14 July 2017)](#nav0)
- [New Facebook group on Computational Science and Engineering topics](#nav1)
- [ACM PASC'17 Call for Papers including Journal Partnerships](#nav2)
- [Extended Deadline for ACM PASC17 Minisymposia Proposals: January 8, 2017](#nav3)
- [International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017)](#nav4)
- [SIAM Workshop on Parameter Space Dimension Reduction (DR17)](#nav5)
- [Postdoc position, Numerical PDEs, Rice University](#nav6)
- [IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships](#nav7)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav8)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">2017 SIAM Workshop on Network Science (13-14 July 2017)</a>

Hello All,

Along with Michelle Girvan, I am co-organizing the 2017
SIAM Workshop on Network Science: <http://www.siam.org/meetings/ns17/>

It will take place in Pittsburgh, PA, USA on 13-14 July 2017, and it is
co-located with the SIAM Annual Meeting.

Abstract submissions (due 27 February) are now open, and the deadline for
early-career researchers to apply for travel support is 20 January. Invited
speakers will be announced shortly.

I hope to see you there!

Mason A. Porter
Professor, Department of Mathematics, UCLA


---------------

## <a name="nav1">New Facebook group on Computational Science and Engineering topics</a>

Hello,  
I decided to create a new facebook group to promote discussions on computational science topics which you can find at the following link and which I would be very glad if you could "join:"
<https://www.facebook.com/groups/695639740618486/>
I hope that this group will then eventually serve as a launching pad for the creation of a proper network consultancy website for computational science and engineering projects where researchers active in this field can work (either paid or voluntarily depending on the offer) as freelance independent consultants on individual short-term projects of their choice proposed on the network by various companies, laboratories or research groups. Let me know in the group your opinion on this network consultancy project which I'm exploring at the moment.    
Many thanks,  
Dr. Gabriele Mogni


---------------

## <a name="nav2">ACM PASC'17 Call for Papers including Journal Partnerships</a>


<p style="text-align: center;">
CALL FOR PAPERS including JOURNAL PARTNERSHIPS  
Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing  
PASC17 Conference  
<https://pasc17.pasc-conference.org/>

Palazzo dei Congressi  
Lugano, Switzerland  
June 26-28, 2017  
</p>

The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) is inviting
submissions for the PASC17 Conference, co-sponsored by the Association
for Computing Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC, which will be held at the
Palazzo dei Congressi in Lugano, Switzerland, from June 26 to 28, 2017.

The PASC Conference is an interdisciplinary event in high performance
computing that brings together domain science, applied mathematics and
computer science - where computer science is focused on enabling the
realization of scientific computation.

The goal of the PASC papers initiative is to advance the quality of
scientific communication between the various disciplines of
computational science and engineering. The initiative is built from an
observation that the computer science community traditionally publishes
in the proceedings of major international conferences, while domain
science communities publish primarily in disciplinary journals - neither
of which is read regularly by the other disciplinary community. The PASC
papers initiative is focused on bringing these communities and
publishing cultures together.

By submitting papers to the PASC Conference, authors can benefit from
the rapid and broad dissemination of results afforded by the conference
venue and associated proceedings, as well as from the impact associated
with publication in a high-quality scientific journal (see below for
more details).

#### SUBMISSIONS

The PASC17 papers program is soliciting high-quality contributions of
original research relating to high performance computing in eight
domain-specific tracks:

- Climate and Weather  
- Solid Earth Dynamics  
- Life Sciences  
- Chemistry and Materials  
- Physics  
- Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
- Engineering  
- Emerging Domains in HPC  

Areas of interest include (but are not limited to):

- The use of advanced computing systems for large-scale scientific
applications 
- Implementation strategies for science applications in energy-efficient
computing architectures  
- Domain-specific languages, libraries or frameworks  
- The integration of large-scale experimental and observational
scientific data and high-performance data analytics and computing  
- Best practices for sustainable software development and scientific
application development

Papers should be between 5 and 10 pages in length, including figures,
tables and appendices, but not references, for which there are no
limits. Contributions should be submitted through the PASC17 online
submissions portal at

<https://pasc17.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>


#### SUBMISSIONS DEADLINES - EXTENDED

The review process is designed in the following stages:

- January 23, 2017: Submissions close  
- February 20, 2017: First review notification  
- March 13, 2017: Revised submissions close  
- April 11, 2017: Final review notification  

#### PASC17 CONFERENCE AND PROCEEDINGS PUBLICATION

Accepted manuscripts will be published in the ACM Digital Library at the
time of the PASC17 Conference, June 26-28, 2017. Authors will be given
30-minute presentation slots at the conference, grouped in topically
focused parallel sessions.

#### POST-CONFERENCE JOURNAL SUBMISSION

Following the conference authors will have the opportunity to develop
their papers, and, where appropriate, associated open-source software,
for publication in a relevant, computationally focused, domain-specific
journal. The journal paper should be an expanded version of the
conference paper (consistent with the ACM policy for major revisions
\[1]) presenting a more complete description of the work - a fuller
introduction, deeper project description, additional results, etc. and
may be accompanied by associated open-source software.

To facilitate post-conference journal publications, the PASC Conference
has formed collaborative partnerships with a number of high-quality
scientific journals, including Computer Physics Communications (CPC)
[2], the Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems (JAMES) [3], and
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (ACM TOMS) [4]. Members of the
journals' editorial boards will work with the PASC Papers Committee in
reviewing PASC papers and in identifying papers to be extended and
submitted to partner journals. Authors should communicate their interest
in publishing with a partner journal during the review process. The
current membership of the PASC Partner Journal Editors Board is as
follows.

* Prof. Stan Scott, Computer Physics Communications, Editor-in-Chief &
Queen's University, Belfast  
* Dr. Robert Pincus, Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems
(JAMES), Editor-in-Chief & University of Colorado/ NOAA Earth System
Research Laboratory  
* Dr. Mike Heroux, ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS),
Editor-in-Chief & Sandia National Laboratory  

#### REVIEW PROCESS

The PASC17 Papers Committee, chaired by Dr. Jack Wells (Oak Ridge
National Laboratory) and Prof. Torsten Hoefler (ETH Zurich), is
responsible for reviewing submitted papers. The goal of the paper-
selection process is to combine the strengths of the conference and
journal publication schemes in order to execute an effective, high-
quality publication venue in large-scale computational science. We use
four key principles to design a paper selection process for PASC17: (1)
no pre-selected review committee, (2) short revision process, (3)
double-blind peer-review, and (4) expert reviewers suggested by primary
reviewers. For a more detailed discussion of this process see T.
Hoefler, 'Selecting Technical Papers for an Interdisciplinary
Conference: The PASC Review Process', in the Proceedings of the Platform
for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference (2016) [5]. Papers will be
evaluated on their significance, technical soundness, originality, and
quality of communication.

Papers should be in the ACM proceedings format [6]. As submissions will
be evaluated double blind, authors should not be named and references to
previous work should be in the third person. We suggest using "An
Author", "Another Author", etc., in the ACM templates, and leaving
affiliations and contact details blank.


\[1] To distinguish between a new derivative work and a minor revision,
ACM uses, respectively, a rule of greater than or less than 25 percent
changed.  
[2] <http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications>  
[3] <http://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1942-2466/>  
[4] <http://toms.acm.org/>  
[5] <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2929908>  
[6] <http://www.acm.org/publications/article-templates/proceedings-template.html>  


---------------

## <a name="nav3">Extended Deadline for ACM PASC17 Minisymposia Proposals: January 8, 2017</a>

The PASC17 conference is inviting minisymposia proposals for the
PASC17 Conference, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC, which will be held at the Palazzo dei
Congressi in Lugano.

PASC17 Conference  
June 26-28, 2017  
Palazzo dei Congressi  
Lugano, Switzerland  
<https://pasc17.pasc-conference.org>

A minisymposium at PASC17 is a two-hour session of four presentations
on a single topic of current importance that addresses research topics
related to domain science, applied mathematics, computer science or
software engineering in the context of high performance computing.

The session should include speakers from more than one country, and be
designed such that the speakers bring a range of different
perspectives and views to the topic. Organizers are strongly
encouraged to include women and/or members of other underrepresented
groups in their proposals.

Please visit our website for submission guidelines:  
<http://pasc17.pasc-conference.org/submission/submissions-portal/>

Extended deadlines for minisymposium submissions:  

8 January: Submissions close (23:59 Anywhere on Earth)  
1 February: Acceptance notifications  





---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu">International Convention on Shape, Solid, Structure, & Physical Modeling (S3PM-2017)</a>
The Chairs of the Convention are inviting proposals for a small number of Mini-Symposia focused on emerging topics of high impact on the research and industrial communities.

We are inviting you to consider submitting a proposal and chairing it, if accepted. A mini-symposium will include 3 presentations (20 mins each) by the Chair and 2 invited speakers, or a brief introduction by the Chair and presentations by 3 invited speakers, followed by a panel and Q&A discussion.

The proposal should be submitted before January 30, 2017 and should include 

* Title of the mini-symposium,  
* Name, affiliation, and homepage link of the Chair,  
* List of speakers' names with their affiliations and homepage links,  
* Brief outline and motivation for the importance of the topic,  
* For each presentation    
* Title of the presentation,  
* Speaker's name,  
* Short abstract (about 200 words),  
* Link to the most relevant paper.  

Feel free to get in touch with any of us if you have a question. We look forward to hearing from you and seeing you at S3PM-2017 in June.

Best Regards,

Vadim Shapiro, General Chair, [S3PM-2017](https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/) Convention  
Sara McMains, General Chair, 2017 Symposium on Solid and Physical Modeling ([SPM-2017](https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/spm.html))  
Jarek Rossignac, General Chair, 2017 Shape Modeling International Symposium ([SMI-2017](https://s3pm.icsi.berkeley.edu/s3pm/smi.html))

---------------

## <a name="nav5"></a><a href="http://www.siam.org/meetings/dr17/">SIAM Workshop on Parameter Space Dimension Reduction (DR17)</a>
The DR17 workshop brings together researchers across mathematics, statistics, and engineering to explore a range of emerging techniques for parameter space dimension reduction. Topics of interest include:  

* active subspaces  
* basis adaptation  
* inverse regression  
* sufficient dimension reduction  
* sloppy models  
* sensitivity analysis  
* ridge recovery and approximation  
* deterministic and statistical parameter estimation  
* applications with science and engineering simulations or data sets  

Plenary speakers:  
Francesca Chiaromonte, Penn State University  
Mark Transtrum, Brigham Young University  

The submission deadline is February 27. Submitted abstracts will be considered for a 20-minute presentation or poster. More details on the website:  
<http://www.siam.org/meetings/dr17/submissions.php>

Some travel support is available for students and early-career researchers. Deadline to apply for travel support is January 20.  
<http://www.siam.org/meetings/dr17/tsupport.php>

DR17 Co-chairs  
Paul Constantine, Colorado School of Mines  
David Gleich, Purdue University  

Organizing committee:  
Juan J. Alonso, Stanford University  
Nathan Baker, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory  
R. Dennis Cook, University of Minnesota  
Emilie Dufresne, Oxford University  
Michael S. Eldred, Sandia National Laboratories  
Michael Frenklach, University of California Berkeley  
Roger Ghanem, University of Southern California  
Omar Ghattas, University of Texas at Austin  
Mark Girolami, Imperial College London  
Gianluca Iaccarino, Stanford University  
Youssef Marzouk, Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
Gianluigi Rozza, Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanti  
Ralph Smith, North Carolina State University  
Michael Wakin, Colorado School of Mines  
Rachel Ward, University of Texas at Austin  
Brian J. Williams, Los Alamos National Laboratory

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Postdoc position, Numerical PDEs, Rice University</a>

The Department of Computational and Applied Mathematics at Rice University invites applications for a postdoctoral research associate position.  An ideal candidate will have experience in parallel programming and/or numerical partial differential equations.  Key aspects of the research include developing a HPC high frequency Helmholtz solver for problem with heterogeneous media as seen in industrial seismic inversion problems.  The project will involve collaboration on an industrial project.

The full job posting, contact information and list of required application materials are available here:
<http://www.caam.rice.edu/~gillmana/AG_postdoc.pdf>

---------------

## <a name="nav7">IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships</a>

The IMA has several openings for Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships. The positions are intended for mathematical scientists at an early stage of their career. Preference will be given to those who have completed their Ph.D. within three years of the start of the appointment. Jointly funded by IMA industrial partners and the IMA, the fellowships begin August 30, 2017, and can be renewed for up to a total of two years. The postdocs will devote 50% effort to projects onsite at the IMA's partner company and 50% effort on their own research under the mentorship of a University of Minnesota faculty. The position carries an annual salary of $65,000 and an allowance of up to $3,000 for professional travel.

IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowships are ideal for mathematical scientists who wish to pursue careers in industry or academic positions that involve industrial interactions. All industry projects involve data and their analysis. Previous data science experience is desirable but not required.

Required Qualifications  

* A Ph.D. in mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, biostatistics, operations research or related areas by the start of the appointment.  
* Strong programming skills -- proficiency in one or more programming languages, familiarity with a few others.  
* Excellent interpersonal, presentation, and written skills  

The research statement you submit is an important part of the application. Your statement should not only outline your research interests and goals, but should also explain why the IMA Industrial Postdoctoral Fellowship would be an effective place for you to pursue these interests and goals.
Consideration of applications will begin on January 19, 2017.

Please see <https://www.ima.umn.edu/postdocs> for more details.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Feb 06, 2017.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
