---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-01-01
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



Happy New Year from the SIAG/LA committee! We hope 2018 is a great year for all of you.

## CONTENTS

- [15th Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods (2nd announcement)](#nav0)
- [Computational Methods for Inverse Problems in Imaging, May 21 - July 20, 2018, University of Insubria](#nav1)
- [Sixth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization](#nav2)
- [Faculty position in Mathematical Biology at UCLA](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">15th Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods (2nd announcement)</a>

The Fifteenth Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods

March 25th - March 30, 2018
Copper Mountain, Colorado, USA

SECOND ANNOUNCEMENT


The Copper Mountain Conference on Iterative Methods, held every other
year, is the premiere conference on all aspects of iterative solution
methods and their applications. The meeting is organized in cooperation
with SIAM.

Important Deadlines:

Student competition papers: January 10, 2018  
(reserved to students who submitted an abstract by December 13, 2017)

Author abstracts: January 15, 2018

Early registration: January 19, 2018

Lodging: Please reserve early as rooms are limited (we recommend
booking no later than February 21 as any unclaimed rooms
will be released after that date)

Tutorial: on Sunday, March 25, starting at 1PM there will be a 3-4 hours 
tutorial led by
Van Henson on Iterative Methods for Data Analysis, aimed at 
graduate-level reasearch
assistants in numerical analysis. Topics include: solvers and 
preconditioning for graph
problems, matrix functions for graph analysis, spectral partitioning, 
eigenvector properties,
impact of skewed degree distributions, ranking algorithms, Markov 
chains, etc.

For additional information, see

<http://grandmaster.colorado.edu/~copper/2018>


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="http://scienze-como.uninsubria.it/masi3a/CMIPI2018/">Computational Methods for Inverse Problems in Imaging, May 21 - July 20, 2018, University of Insubria</a>
The Organizing Committee is pleased to announce the 
INDAM intensive bimester program "Computational Methods for Inverse Problems in Imaging",  
May 21 - July 20, 2018,  
University of Insubria, Como, Italy.

The bimester program will start with a Summer School (21-25 May) at Villa del Grumello, Como. 
The speakers will be: Raymond Chan, Jim Nagy, Jean-Christophe Pesquet and Lothar Reichel. 
For more informations about the school, please visit the website

<http://cmip.lakecomoschool.org/>

Registration is open until February 25.

After the Summer School, the bimester program will continue with thematic weeks:  

- Optimization techniques for imaging (11-15 June)
- Numerical methods for Astronomical Imaging (18-22 June)
- Reconstruction methods for sparse-data tomography (25-29 June)
- Restoration of Medical Imaging (9-13 July)  
and it will end with a Workshop (16-18 July).

For any info, as well as for registration, check the website

<http://scienze-como.uninsubria.it/masi3a/CMIPI2018/>

Based on the available funds and upon request, financial support for accommodation is available for PhD students and Post-Docs who would require it.

We look forward to seeing you in Como!

Marco Donatelli,  
On behalf of the Organizing Committee

---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="https://ima.org.uk/7149/6thimanlao/">Sixth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization</a>
The IMA and the University of Birmingham are pleased to announce the Sixth IMA Conference on Numerical Linear Algebra and Optimization. The meeting is being held in cooperation with SIAM, and SIAM Activity Groups on Optimization and on Linear Algebra. SIAM members will receive the IMA members' registration rate.

##Scope##

The success of modern codes for large-scale optimization is heavily dependent on the use of effective tools of numerical linear algebra. On the other hand, many problems in numerical linear algebra lead to linear, nonlinear or semidefinite optimization problems. The purpose of the conference is to bring together researchers from both communities and to find and communicate points and topics of common interest.
Conference topics include any subject that could be of interest to both communities, such as:  

- Direct and iterative methods for large sparse linear systems  
- Eigenvalue computation and optimization  
- Large-scale nonlinear and semidefinite programming  
- Effect of round-off errors, stopping criteria, embedded iterative procedures  
- Optimization issues for matrix polynomials  
- Fast matrix computations  
- Compressed/sparse sensing  
- PDE-constrained optimization  
- Distributed computing and optimization  
- Applications and real time optimization  

*Invited speakers*: Amir Beck (Technion Haifa); Julian Hall (University of Edinburgh); Misha Kilmer (Tufts University); Dominique Orban (Polytechnique Montr&eacute;al); Alison Ramage (University of Strathclyde); Fran&ccedil;oise Tisseur (University of Manchester); Luis Nunes Vicente (University of Coimbra); Steve Wright (University of Wisconsin)

Organising committee: Michal Ko&ccaron;vara, University of Birmingham (co-chair); Daniel Loghin, University of Birmingham (co-chair); Coralia Cartis, University of Oxford; Nick Gould, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory; Philip Knight, University of Strathclyde; Jennifer Scott, University of Reading and Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
The conference will be hosted by the University of Birmingham. Talks will take place in the School of Mathematics.

Instructions for authors: Mini-symposium proposals and contributed talks are invited on all aspects of numerical linear algebra and optimization. Mini-symposium proposals should be submitted to conferences@ima.org.uk by 31 January 2018. A mini-symposium consists of up to four speakers. For emerging topics the mini-symposium can be extended to at most two sessions on a single topic (maximum eight speakers). Organisers will be advised of acceptance by 12 February 2018. Contributed talks and mini-symposia talks will be accepted on the basis of a one page extended abstract which should be submitted by 28 February 2018 online at https://my.ima.org.uk. Authors will be advised of acceptance by 31 March 2018. A book of abstracts will be made available to delegates at the conference.

Key dates  

Mini-symposia proposals: 31 January 2018  
Notification of acceptance of mini-symposia: 12 February 2018  
Abstract submission: 28 February 2018  
Notification of acceptance of abstracts: 31 March 2018  
Conference: 27-29 June 2018  
Conference webpage: <https://ima.org.uk/7149/6thIMANLAO/>  

For further information or to register your interest in this conference, please contact Lizzi Lake, Conference Officer: email <conferences@ima.org.uk>, tel 44 (0) 1702 354 020, Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, Catherine Richards House, 16 Nelson Street, Southend-on-Sea, Essex, SS1 1EF, UK.

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Faculty position in Mathematical Biology at UCLA</a>

The Division of Life Sciences at the University of California, Los 
Angeles is searching for a mathematical biologist, a full-time 
tenure-track/tenure (open rank) faculty appointment, to be affiliated with 
the Institute for Quantitative and Computational Biosciences and hold a
faculty appointment in one of the Life Science departments: Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, Integrative Biology and Physiology, Microbiology,
Immunology and Molecular Genetics, or Molecular, Cell and Developmental
Biology.

Please see <https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu/apply/JPF03420> for further information.

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Feb 05, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
