---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-10-01
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---
In the digest this month are a number of conference and job announcements.

## CONTENTS

- [Preconditioning 2019](#nav0)
- [Permanent Position in Computational Mathematics at the STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK](#nav1)
- [Postdoc Positions, Randomized Numerical Analysis, North Carolina State University](#nav2)
- [John von Neumann Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computational Science at Sandia National Laboratories](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------

## <a name="nav0"></a><a href="https://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~saad/Precon19/">Preconditioning 2019</a>
The 2019 International Conference on Preconditioning Techniques
for Scientific and Industrial Applications (Preconditioning 2019) 

Date: July 1 -- 3, 2019

Location: University of Minnesota, Twin cities

Preconditioning 2019  is the  11th edition of  the series  of meetings
(one every two  years) that address issues  related to preconditioning
methods  for solving  general  sparse matrix  problems in  large-scale
applications and in industrial settings. The conference is a forum for
exchanging  ideas  on  the   latest  developments  in  preconditioning
techniques for  sparse linear  systems of equations,  and to  a lesser
extent for  eigenvalue problems.   Preconditioning 2019 will  mark the
20th anniversary of this series of conferences which started in 1999 at
the University of Minnesota.

Additional  details,  including  the  list of  invited  speakers,  the
scientific  committee,  and  important  dates, can  be  found  at  the
conference web-site:

<https://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~saad/Precon19/>

The organizers

Yousef Saad (Chair), University of Minnesota  
Andy Wathen, Oxford University  
Esmond Ng,  Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

---------------

## <a name="nav1">Permanent Position in Computational Mathematics at the STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK</a>

Are you a Software Engineer who has a passion for mathematics? The Computational Mathematics Group at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory carries out mathematical research by developing and analysing innovative algorithms. We are looking for a Software Engineer to join the group. You will help develop, support and maintain the software within the Group's projects. Our software, including HSL, GALAHAD and SPRAL, is highly regarded and widely used throughout the world. You will be the first point of contact for the users of the Group's software and you will set the standard for best practice in on-going development in the group.

To succeed in this role, you will be a highly motivated and proactive Software Developer with a mathematical background and experience of software engineering in a production environment. For further details, please visit

<http://www.topcareer.jobs/Vacancy/irc246502_8649.aspx>

Please contact us (<jennifer.scott@stfc.ac.uk>, <tyrone.rees@stfc.ac.uk>) by email for specific queries.
The closing date for applications is 7 October.

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Postdoc Positions, Randomized Numerical Analysis, North Carolina State University</a>

The Department of Mathematics at NC State University has an open
postdoctoral position under its new NSF funded Research Training Group
RTG, DMS-1745654 in Randomized Numerical Analysis. The position is
restricted to US citizens, nationals and permanent residents. The
postdoctoral associate must hold a Ph.D. in mathematics or a closely
related discipline awarded after January 1, 2017. An exception to this
rule, occasioned for instance by a career interruption, may be
requested in the cover letter.

The postdoctoral associate is expected to engage in research related
to at least one of the three complementary research thrusts of the
project in randomized numerical linear algebra, random nonlinear
solvers and global sensitivity analysis. Strengths in applied
probability, numerical analysis, and scientific computing are an
asset. Based on background, experience, and interests, the postdoc will
be assigned one research mentor from the faculty associated with the
RTG: Alen Alexanderian, Pierre Gremaud, Ilse Ipsen, Tim Kelley, Arvind
Saibaba and Ralph Smith. An academic mentor will be chosen from this
group to oversee the postdoc's training and professional
development. The postdoc will also play a leading role in mentoring
students associated with some of the project's working groups; he/she
will be expected to assist in organizing seminars and activities
related to the general research of the RTG. In addition, the postdoc
will teach on average one course per semester in the Department of
Mathematics.

This position is for a term of up to three years, contingent upon
performance. The starting date is anticipated between January and
August 2019. The 11-month salary of $62,500 includes summer
support. In addition, the postdoc will be given an annual travel
budget of $3,000.

Submit your application materials (cover letter, a CV, a research
statement and the names of at least three potential letter writers)
through [mathjobs.org](http://mathjobs.org) at
<https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?joblist-177-12087>. Women and members of
under-represented minority groups are particularly encouraged to
apply. Applications will be evaluated on a rolling basis until the
position is filled; please apply as soon as possible. Inquiries may be
directed to Pierre Gremaud (RTG Director): <gremaud@ncsu.edu>.

---------------

## <a name="nav3">John von Neumann Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computational Science at Sandia National Laboratories</a>

Sandia National Laboratories invites outstanding candidates to apply for the 2019 John von Neumann Postdoctoral
Research Fellowship in Computational Science. This prestigious fellowship is partially supported by the Applied
Mathematics Research Program in the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research.
The fellowship provides an exceptional opportunity for innovative research in computational mathematics and scientific
computing on advanced computing architectures with application to a broad range of science and engineering problems of
national importance. Applicants must have or soon receive a Ph.D. in applied/computational mathematics or related 
computational
science and engineering disciplines. Applicants must have less than three years of postdoctoral experience. This appointment
is for one year, with a possible renewal for a second year, and includes a highly competitive salary, moving expenses
and a generous professional travel allowance.

Applications will be reviewed upon receipt. Complete applications received by November 26, 2018 will receive full 
consideration.

For more information, including application instructions, please see our web page at <http://www.cs.sandia.gov/VN_Web_Page/>.

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Nov 05, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

