---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-08-06
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



In the digest this month are a number of conference and job announcements.

## CONTENTS

- [Sparse Days at CERFACS, France, September 27-28 2018](#nav0)
- [SIAM Conference on Computational Science and Engineering (CSE19)](#nav1)
- [Faculty Position on Numerical Methods in Data Science](#nav2)
- [PhD Positions, Scientific Computing, Emory University, Atlanta](#nav3)
- [PhD position - Preconditioners for time-harmonic heterogeneous electromagnetic problems (Univ. Strathclyde)](#nav4)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav5)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Sparse Days at CERFACS, France, September 27-28 2018</a>

The annual Sparse Days meeting will be held at CERFACS in Toulouse on
27th and 28th September 2018.

Registration for the Sparse Days is free but we ask people who are coming 
to register as soon as possible although the deadline is
August 26th. Please complete the form on the website

<https://sparsedays.cerfacs.fr/en/>

indicating whether you want to give a talk and whether you wish to attend
the conference dinner.  Although an emphasis will be on parallel aspects, any 
talk that has an association with sparsity is welcome. The length for a
talk plus questions is 30 minutes although this is negotiable in
either direction.


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="https://www.siam.org/conferences/CM/Main/cse19">SIAM Conference on Computational Science and Engineering (CSE19)</a>
Dear All

As co-chairs of the SIAM CSE19 Conference, we're writing to encourage you to submit proposals for minisymposia and minisymposteria, abstracts for minisymposium and contributed talks, and poster abstracts.  We also encourage students, postdocs, and early career researchers to apply for travel grants.  The deadlines are coming up soon!

See below for more information.

Best regards,
SIAM CSE19 Co-Chairs

Suzanne Shontz, University of Kansas  
Jeffrey Hittinger, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory  
Luke Olson, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  

###Organizing Committee

- Katherine J. Evans, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA  
- Hans Johansen, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA  
- Matthew G. Knepley, University at Buffalo, USA  
- Tamara G. Kolda, Sandia National Laboratories, USA  
- Alison Marsden, Stanford University, USA  
- Marie E. Rognes, Simula Research Laboratory, Norway  
- Robert Scheichl, University of Bath, United Kingdom  
- Andrea Walther, Paderborn University, Germany  
- Stefan Wild, Argonne National Laboratory, USA  
- Rebecca Willett, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA  
- Rio Yokota, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan  

###Plenary Speakers

- Alistair Adcroft, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  
- Anima Anandkumar, Amazon and California Institute of Technology  
- Maryam Fazel, University of Washington  
- Michael C. Ferris, University of Wisconsin - Madison  
- Boyce E. Griffith, University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill  
- Laura Grigori, INRIA Paris  
- Gianluigi Rozza, SISSA University  
- Rachel A. Ward, University of Texas at Austin and Facebook  

###Call for Presentations

The Call for Presentations for this conference is available at  
<https://www.siam.org/conferences/CM/sd/cse19-submissions-deadlines>

Twitter hashtag:   #cse19

SUBMISSION DEADLINE  
**August 22, 2018:  Contributed Lecture, Minisymposia, Poster and Minisymposteria Presentation Abstracts**  

TRAVEL FUND APPLICATION DEADLINE  
**August 8, 2018: SIAM Student Travel Award and Post-doc/Early Career Travel Award Applications**

Please visit <http://www.siam.org/meetings/cse19/submissions.php> for detailed submission information.

For additional information, contact the SIAM Conference Department (<meetings@siam.org>).

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Faculty Position on Numerical Methods in Data Science</a>

The research unit NUMA, Department of Computer Science, KU Leuven invites applications for a full-time faculty position. The research unit develops numerical methods, algorithms, and software for simulation and data analysis, with applications in many fields in science and engineering. Research topics include numerical linear algebra, numerical methods for data analytics, model order reduction, control and optimization methods, multi-scale modelling and simulation, high performance computing, and uncertainty propagation.

The new position will complement the existing expertise on numerical methods and its applications of the NUMA Section, and will focus on new application modelling techniques and on new numerical algorithms and computational mathematics for Data Science. The position will aim at translating real-world problems to mathematical engineering models, and will be driven by practical applications and data-sets from the industry.

For further details, contact information and a description of the application procedure follow the link:
<https://www.kuleuven.be/personeel/jobsite/jobs/54589509?hl=en&lang=en>

For more information, please contact the department chair Ronald Cools or the head of the research unit Dirk Roose.

---------------

## <a name="nav3">PhD Positions, Scientific Computing, Emory University, Atlanta</a>

Several PhD positions in scientific computing are available in the
Department of Mathematics at Emory University. Numerical Analysis
and Scientific Computing are among the department's key focus
areas. Our graduate program focuses on numerical linear algebra,
partial differential equations, optimization, inverse problems and
offers excellent research opportunities in these areas and
opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations with leading
experts from a variety of disciplines including cardiology,
radiology, biostatistics, biomedical engineering, geophysics, and
machine learning.

For PhD students in Mathematics, a number of five-year scholarships
are available. International students are encouraged to apply, and
successful candidates will receive visa sponsorship. Incoming
students are required to have a BSc degree in mathematics, computer
science, or a related field. Applicants with MSc degrees are
welcome to apply for admission as 'advanced standing.'

More information can be found at
<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>

Interested candidates should contact <compmathphd@emory.edu>   
All applicants must submit an application package consisting of:  

(1) curriculum vitae and transcripts  
(2) statement of purpose  
(3) a minimum of two letters of reference  

Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until
the positions are filled. Anticipated start date is September 1,
but other options, such as January 1, are possible.

---------------

## <a name="nav4">PhD position - Preconditioners for time-harmonic heterogeneous electromagnetic problems (Univ. Strathclyde)</a>

PDEs (partial differential equations) arise in the mathematical modelling of many physical phenomena as well as science and engineering problems (meteorology, structural analysis, fluid dynamics, electromagnetism, finance, etc.) Parallel solution schemes using state-of-the art computers allow scientists to obtain more representative and accurate solutions of the discretised equations faster. This increase in computational and modelling capabilities in turn encourages modelers and scientists to tackle harder problems, which need finer discretisations or more complex geometries. Among these problems, wave propagation in heterogeneous media and time harmonic regime (supposing an oscillatory behaviour in time of the solution) is particularly challenging and requires sophisticated methods. This project seeks to design, analyse, and implement fast, highly-parallel preconditioners for problems involving electromagnetic waves. The PhD researcher will have a substantial interaction with the postdoctoral researchers and scientists working in a recently awarded EPSRC grant between the Universities of Bath and Strathclyde, as well as with the industrial and academic international experts who are collaborating in this project.

Prerequisites: you should have (or expect to have) a UK Honours Degree (or equivalent) in Mathematics, Mathematics and Physics, or a closely related discipline with a high mathematical content. Knowledge of numerical methods for the solution of partial differential equations and programming in usual scientific programming languages is desirable.

The candidates must be a UK citizen, or a EU citizen fulfilling the EPSRC requirements.
The starting date of the position should be on the 1st of October, 2018 or very soon after.
Funding: 4 year EPSRC scholarship.

Informal inquiries can be made to the supervisor: V. Dolean (<victorita.dolean@strath.ac.uk>)

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Sep 03, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
