---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-09-03
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---

In the digest this month are a number of conference and job announcements.

## CONTENTS

- [Activity Group Sessions at ICIAM 2019](#nav0)
- [Conference on Fast Direct Solvers](#nav1)
- [Research Scientist - Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory](#nav2)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav3)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">Activity Group Sessions at ICIAM 2019</a>

We would like to encourage our members to consider organising a mini symposium at ICIAM 2019 in linear algebra (<https://iciam2019.org/index.php/scientific-program/minisymposia>). Minisymposia organised by SIAM Activity Groups can be listed in  the ICIAM program with a tag identifying it with the group. All sessions need to be first submitted to ICIAM. Please also send the name of the minisymposia session and organizers to Jim Crowley at <crowley@siam.org>, and include in the subject line "ICIAM 2019 sessions" and the name of the Activity Group. Closing date for minisymposia is November 5, 2018.

The SIAG/LA officers


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="http://www.math.purdue.edu/~xiaj/FastSolvers2018/">Conference on Fast Direct Solvers</a>
Purdue CCAM (Center for Computational & Applied Mathematics) is hosting the 2018 Conference on Fast Direct Solvers on Nov 9-11, 2018 (it will start from the afternoon of Fri, Nov 9). The purpose of the conference is to discuss and exchange ideas on topics related to fast direct solvers, structured matrices, sparsity and data sparsity, high performance direct solvers, randomized algorithms, structured preconditioning, fast PDE and IE solvers, related applications, and other relevant subjects. The organizers are Jie Shen and Jianlin Xia.

The following is a tentative list of invited speakers:

- Eric Darve, Stanford University  
- Ming Gu, UC Berkeley  
- Daniel Kressner, EPFL, Switzerland  
- Sabine Le Borne, Hamburg University of Technology, Germany  
- Eric Michielssen, University of Michigan  
- Olaf Schenk, Universita della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland  

Contributed talks are welcome. Please see the following webpage for more information:  

<http://www.math.purdue.edu/~xiaj/FastSolvers2018/>

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Research Scientist - Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory</a>

Dear Colleagues,

Berkeley Lab's Computational Research Division is looking for a career-track research scientist. 
The successful candidate will perform research in parallel and high-performance algorithms for one or more of the following areas: biology, machine learning & graph computations.

More information and application instructions can be found here <http://m.rfer.us/LBLPRFwb> 

Thanks,
- Aydin

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Oct 01, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
