---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-05-08
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---

It has been great to see so many of you at the SIAM ALA meeting in Hong Kong and to hear about the wide variety of topics on which people are working.

## CONTENTS

- [SIAGLA Prize Winners](#nav0)
- [Full Time Position in High Performance Computing](#nav1)
- [Two PhD studentships at Strathclyde University, Glasgow](#nav2)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav3)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">SIAG/LA Prize Winners</a>

At the SIAM ALA meeting in Hong Kong, Jiawang Nie and Alex Townsend were awarded the SIAG/LA Best Paper Prize and the SIAG/LA Early Career Prize, respectively. Jiawang was recognised for the paper "Generating Polynomials and Symmetric Tensor Decompositions" (Foundations of Computational Mathematics 17(2): 423-465 (2017)), while Alex received his prize for distinguished contributions to linear algebra. Congratulations to Jiawang and Alex!

---------------

## <a name="nav1">Full Time Position in High Performance Computing</a>

The Innovative Computing Laboratory (ICL, <http://icl.cs.utk.edu/>) at the University of Tennessee is looking for bright, motivated people to join our leading edge research team. The primary duties of this position are: to participate in the design, development and maintenance of numerical software libraries for solving linear algebra problems on large distributed memory machines with multicore processors and hardware accelerators; to help write research papers documenting research findings; to present the team's work at conferences; and to help lead students and research team in their research endeavors as related to ongoing and future projects. Given the nature of the work, there will be opportunities for publication, travel, and high profile professional networking in academia, labs, and industry. 
 
Joining this team will offer qualified candidates exciting career opportunities, such as participation in the Exascale Computing Projects (ECP) by the U.S. Department of Energy, such as SLATE (<http://icl.utk.edu/slate/>), PEEKS (<http://icl.utk.edu/peeks/>), xSDK (<http://www.icl.utk.edu/research/xsdk4ecp>), and others.

We encourage both fresh PhD graduates, as well as seasoned HPC veterans to apply. For more information, check out the job offer at
<http://www.icl.utk.edu/content/job-opportunities>
(section "Research Position in Numerical Linear Algebra"). For consideration, send CV and contact information for three references to Earl Carr at <carr@icl.utk.edu>.

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Two PhD studentships at Strathclyde University, Glasgow</a>

The department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Strathclyde 
(<https://www.strath.ac.uk/science/mathematicsstatistics/>) is currently advertising two
fully funded, four year PhD scholarships in all areas of the mathematical sciences
(including statistics).  These scholarships are in the EPSRC framework for 'National 
Productivity Investment Fund 2018 training grant', and thus, candidates must be a UK
citizen, or a EU citizen fulfilling the EPSRC requirements.

The starting date of the scholarships is the 1st of October, 2018.

The selection process will be as follows:

1. Please, send a cover letter (including research interests), a detailed CV (including transcripts), and two reference letters, by email, to  Dr. Gabriel Barrenechea (<gabriel.barrenechea@strath.ac.uk>).  
2. After a ranking process (and possible interviews), two candidates will be chosen.  
3. These candidates will be given a number of projects to choose from, ranging over all the areas of applied mathematical sciences.

The deadline for applications is the 15th of June, 2018, and the results are expected to
be communicated on the 15th of July. 

For any inquires, please contact Dr. Gabriel Barrenechea, or Dr. Michael Grinfeld 
(<m.grinfeld@strath.ac.uk>).

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jun 04, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

