---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-11-05
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



A reminder that the SIAG/LA elections for new officers will close on November 20.

## CONTENTS

- [SIAG/LA Officer Election Open](#nav0)
- [Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC19)](#nav1)
- [SIAM Conference on Control and Its Applications (CT19)](#nav2)
- [28th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis](#nav3)
- [MAT TRIAD 2019 - The 8th International Conference on Matrix Analysis and its Applications](#nav4)
- [Two faculty positions in Applied Math at the University of Colorado Boulder](#nav5)
- [Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures, Sandia](#nav6)
- [Postdoctoral Fellowships at Berkeley Lab](#nav7)
- [Postdoc position at the clinical informatics lab, University of Michigan](#nav8)
- [1 year research post at Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa](#nav9)
- [Graduate Fellowships, Computational Mathematics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA](#nav10)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav11)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">SIAG/LA Officer Election Open</a>


Dear SIAG/LA Nonstudent Members:

There's still time to vote!

The election for new SIAG officers of the started on October 12th and ends on November 20th. You should have received an email from noreply@electionrunner.com with instructions on how to access the ballot. If you did not receive that message, please let me know and I will assist you with accessing your ballot.

Thank you for your continued membership in SIAG/LA and for participating in the election! Please feel free to contact me with any comments or questions!

(Students may disregard this message.)

Best regards,  

Tim Fest  
Membership Manager, SIAM  
<fest@siam.org>


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org">Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC19)</a>
The Platform for Advanced Scientific Computing (PASC) invites research paper 
submissions for PASC19, co-sponsored by the Association for Computing 
Machinery (ACM) and SIGHPC, which will be held at ETH Zurich, Switzerland, 
from June 12 to 14, 2019 (<https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org>).

PASC19 is the sixth edition of the PASC Conference series, an international 
platform for the exchange of competences in scientific computing and 
computational science, with a strong focus on methods, tools, algorithms, 
application challenges, and novel techniques and usage of high performance 
computing.

As in previous years, the technical program of PASC19 is organized around 
eight scientific domains:

* Chemistry and Materials  
* Climate and Weather  
* Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
* Emerging Application Domains (incl. but not limited to social sciences, 
finance, ...)   
* Engineering (incl. but not limited to CFD, computational mechanics, 
computational engineering materials, turbulent flow, ...)  
* Life Sciences (incl. but not limited to biophysics, genomics, 
bioinformatics, systems biology, neuroscience and computational biology, ...)  
* Physics (incl. but not limited to astrophysics, cosmology, plasma 
modelling, QCD, ...)  
* Solid Earth Dynamics  

PASC19 solicits high-quality contributions of original research related to 
scientific computing in all of these domains. Papers that engage with the 
theme of PASC19 - Exascale and Beyond - are particularly welcome, as are 
submissions that seek to define the state of the art in a particular 
application area.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

* Extreme scalable methods in computational science and engineering, such as 
algorithms and software for scalable multi-scale, multi-physics, and 
high-fidelity computational science and engineering problems.  
* Numerical methods, algorithms, or large-scale simulations in computational 
fluid dynamics, computational mechanics, computational engineering materials, 
turbulent flow, and compuational cosmology.  
* Effective use of advanced computing systems for large-scale scientific 
applications, including modern multi- and many-core CPUs and accelerators 
with deep memory hierarchies, and energy-efficient architectures.  
* Best practices and tools for productive and sustainable scientific and 
engineering software development.  
* The integration of large-scale experimental and observational scientific 
data and high-performance data analytics and computing.  
* Reproducibility for computational science and engineering.
* Verification, validation, and uncertainty quantification.  
* Domain specific languages; toolchains for source-to-source 
translation/adaption.  
* Runtime systems and middleware, such as task- and data-driven computation 
on heterogenous architectures.  
* Algorithms and strategies for effective use of machine learning, deep
learning or AI to accelerate computational science.  
* Unstructured vs structured meshes for computational science applications at 
exascale.  
* Numerical algorithm development for exascale computing, including, but not 
limited to, communication avoiding algorithms, use of reduced or mixed 
precision, and integration of scalable numerical libraries in application 
software.  

Papers accepted for PASC19 will be presented as talks, and published in the 
Proceedings of the PASC Conference, accessible via the ACM Digital Library. A 
selection of the highest quality papers may be given the opportunity of a 
plenary presentation. In selecting papers for plenary presentation, the
Papers Committee will place particular weight on impact, interdisciplinarity 
and interest to a broad audience.

The goal of the PASC Conference Papers Program is to advance the quality of 
scientific communication between the various disciplines of computational 
science and engineering in the context of high performance computing. The 
program was built from an observation that the computer science community 
traditionally publishes in the proceedings of major international 
conferences, while domain science communities publish primarily in 
disciplinary journals - and neither of which is read regularly by the other. 
The PASC Conference provides a unique venue that enables interdisciplinary 
exchange in a manner that bridges the two scientific publishing cultures.

SUBMISSION AND REVIEW 

The PASC19 Papers Program Committee 
(<https://pasc19.pasc-conference.org/about/papers-program-committee/>) is
responsible for the paper evaluation process. The committee is chaired by 
Sunita Chandrasekaran (University of Delaware) and &Uuml;mit V. &Ccedil;ataly&uuml;rek 
(Georgia Institute of Technology) and comprised of Domain Chairs who are 
specialists in their scientific fields. Papers will be evaluated on their 
significance, technical soundness, originality, and quality of communication.

We employ a rigorous academic peer-review process: most notably, we allow the 
possibility for provisional acceptance (revision and author rebuttal), and 
specialized reviewers are solicited for each submission (there is no 
pre-selected standing committee of reviewers). The paper selection process 
thus combines the strengths of conference and journal publication schemes to 
provide an effective, high-impact publication venue in large-scale 
computational science.

Contributions must be submitted through the PASC Conference online submission 
portal (<https://submissions.pasc-conference.org>). Submissions should include 
the following:

* Title: Maximum 20 words.  
* Scientific Domain: Select a primary and optionally secondary scientific 
domain(s).  
* Author details: Full names and contact details of author(s).  
* Short Abstract: Maximum 200 words.  
* Paper: Maximum 10 pages including figures, tables, and appendices.   

As submissions are evaluated double blind, authors should not be named in the 
paper itself (nor should their affiliations or funding bodies), and 
references to previous own work should be made in the third person. Papers 
must be submitted in the current ACM Article Template (sigconf proceedings) 
format [1].

ROLLING SUBMISSION DEADLINES

This year the PASC Conference introduces a novel rolling submission and
review process. There will be six submission deadlines every year, on the 
15th day of odd numbered months (i.e., January, March, May, July, September 
and November). The first of these deadlines is November 15, 2018. The next 
deadline (and final deadline for PASC19) will be January 15, 2019. From March 
15, 2019, submissions will be considered for PASC20. Deadlines are 11:59 pm 
anywhere on earth ('AoE' or 'UTC-12').

The submission system is open continuously throughout the year. Manuscripts 
will be assigned to reviewers at the date of the next submissions deadline; 
reviews will be returned to authors within 5 weeks with a decision of accept, 
reject or revision. Revisions will be due 4 weeks after notifications.

* 15 November 2018: First rolling deadline for new submissions  
* 15 January 2019: Second (and final) rolling deadline for new submissions  

CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION TERMS

Authors of papers that are accepted for PASC19 will be given 20-30 minute 
presentation slots at the conference, grouped in topically-focused parallel 
sessions. A selection of the highest quality papers may be given the 
opportunity of a plenary presentation. Papers that are presented at PASC19 
will be published in the Proceedings of the PASC Conference, accessible via 
the ACM Digital Library. Please note that speakers must register for the 
conference and are subject to the corresponding registration fee.

POST-CONFERENCE JOURNAL SUBMISSION

Following the conference, authors will have the opportunity to develop their 
papers, and, where appropriate, associated open-source software, for 
publication in a relevant, computationally focused, domain-specific journal. 
The journal paper should be an expanded version of the conference paper
(consistent with the ACM policy for major revisions [2]) presenting a more 
complete description of the work - a fuller introduction, deeper project 
description, additional results, etc. and may be accompanied by associated 
open-source software.

To facilitate post-conference journal publications, the PASC Conference has 
formed collaborative partnerships with a number of high-quality scientific 
journals, including Computer Physics Communications (CPC) [3], the Journal of 
Advances in Modeling Earth Systems (JAMES) [4], and ACM Transactions on
Mathematical Software (ACM TOMS) [5]. Members of the journals' editorial 
boards will work with the Scientific Committee in reviewing PASC papers and 
in identifying papers to be extended and submitted to partner journals.
Authors should communicate their interest in publishing with a partner 
journal during the submission process.

PAPERS PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRS    

General Chairs 
* &Uuml;mit V. &Ccedil;ataly&uuml;rek (Georgia Institute of Technology, US)  
* Sunita Chandrasekaran (University of Delaware, US)  

Chemistry and Materials  
* Edoardo Di Napoli (Forschungszentrum J&uuml;lich, Germany)  
* Zeila Zanolli (Institut Catal&agrave; de Nanoci&eacute;ncia i Nanotecnologia, Spain)  

Climate and Weather  
* Katherine Evans (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)  
* Nils Wedi (ECMWF, UK)  

Computer Science and Applied Mathematics  
* Michael Heroux (Sandia National Laboratories, US)  
* Kathryn Mohror (Livermore National Laboratory, US)  

Emerging Application Domains  
* Steve Aplin (Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, Germany)  
* Michael Bussmann (Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Germany)  

Engineering  
* Richard Sandberg (The University of Melbourne, Australia)  
* Philipp Schlatter (KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden)  

Life Sciences   
* Dan Jacobson (Oak Ridge National Laboratory, US)   
* Eilif Muller (EPFL, Switzerland)   

Physics  
* Stan Scott (Queen's University Belfast, UK)  
* Lucio Mayer (University of Zurich, Switzerland)  

Solid Earth Dynamics   
* Felix Herrmann (Georgia Institute of Technology, US) 
* Gerard Gorman (Imperial College London, UK)



If you have any questions regarding the submission or reviewing process
please email <info@pasc-conference.org>. 

Notes:

1. www.acm.org/publications/article-templates/proceedings-template.html
2. To distinguish between a new derivative work and a minor revision, ACM 
uses, respectively, a rule of greater than or less than 25 percent changed
3. www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications
4. agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1942-2466/
5. toms.acm.org

---------------

## <a name="nav2"></a><a href="http://siamct19.cuit.edu.cn/">SIAM Conference on Control and Its Applications (CT19)</a>
SIAM Conference on Control and Its Applications (CT19)  
Sponsored by the SIAM Activity Group on Control and Systems Theory (SIAG/CST)
 
Chengdu Cynn Hotel (also known as Xanadu Hotel)  
Chengdu, China
 
June 19-21, 2019
 
General Conference Chair:  
Jiliu Zhou, Chengdu University of Information Technology, China
 
Conference Co-Chairs:  
William Levine, University of Maryland, College Park, U.S.  
Richard Stockbridge, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, U.S.
 
Organizing Committee:  
Jean-Pierre Barbot, &Eacute;cole Nationale Sup&eacute;rieure de l'Electronique et de ses Applications, France  
Catherine Bonnet, Inria, France  
S&ouml;ren Christensen, University of Hamburg, Germany  
Michael Demetriou, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, U.S.  
Daniel Ho, City University of Hong Kong, China  
Zengguang Hou, Chinese Academy of Science, China  
Matthew James, Australian National University, Australia  
Tao Li, East China Normal University, China  
Hideo Nagai, Kansai University, Japan  
Bozenna Pasik-Duncan, University of Kansas, U.S.  
Shuenn-Jyi Sheu, National Central University, China  
Amit Surana, United Technologies Research Center, U.S.  
Shanjian Tang, Fudan University, China  
Zhen Wu, Shandong University, China  
 
The Call for Presentations for this conference is available at:

<http://siamct19.cuit.edu.cn/index.htm#promo>
 
#SIAMCT19
 
**Deadlines**  
December 10, 2018: Minisymposium proposals  
December 21, 2018: Travel Award  
January 7, 2019: Abstracts for contributed and minisymposium speakers  
January 7, 2019:  Full Paper for Consideration in Proceedings (Conference participants have the option to submit a full paper for consideration in the conference proceedings.)
 
Please visit <http://siamct19.cuit.edu.cn/INFO_FOR_PARTICIPANTS/Submissions.htm> for detailed submission information.
 
For additional information, contact <siamct19@cuit.edu.cn>.

---------------

## <a name="nav3"></a><a href="http://www.naconf.org.uk">28th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis</a>
Registration will open shortly for the 28th Biennial Conference on
Numerical Analysis June 24-28, 2019, University of Strathclyde,
Glasgow, Scotland

This long established conference is open to all researchers in the
field, and you are invited to contribute a talk on your current work.
PhD students and young researchers will find the environment
particularly welcoming. We will solicit proposals for mini-symposia to
be submitted on-line.

The following distinguished researchers have accepted invitations for
plenary lectures at the conference: Raymond Chan (CUHK), Paul
Constantine (UC Boulder), Alistair Forbes (NPL), Vivette Girault
(Paris VI), Des Higham (Strathclyde), Natalia Kopteva (Limerick),
Gunilla Kreiss (Uppsala), Frances Kuo (UNSW), Ulrich Ruede (Erlangen),
Carola-Bibiane Schoenlieb (Cambridge), Holger Wendland (Bayreuth),
Margaret Wright (Courant Institute)

The A R Mitchell lecture will be given by Des Higham and the
Fletcher-Powell lecture by Margaret Wright.

Further information may be found at <http://www.naconf.org.uk>

---------------

## <a name="nav4"></a><a href="http://mattriad.math.cas.cz/">MAT TRIAD 2019 - The 8th International Conference on Matrix Analysis and its Applications</a>
### SCOPE

MAT TRIAD provides an opportunity to bring together researchers sharing
an interest  in a variety of aspects of matrix analysis and its 
applications in other areas of science. Researchers and graduate 
students interested in recent developments in matrix theory and 
computation, spectral problems, applications of linear algebra in 
statistics, statistical models, matrices and graphs as well as 
combinatorial matrix theory are particularly encouraged to attend. The 
format of the meeting will involve plenary sessions, special sessions 
and  sessions with contributed talks posters. The conferences from MAT 
TRIAD series attract a number of international participants, provide a 
high quality scientific program as well as a friendly atmosphere for the 
discussion and exchange of ideas.

### SPECIAL ISSUE

A special issue of Applications of Mathematics will be published after 
the meeting, with the papers related to the talks presented during the 
conference.

### IMPORTANT DAYS

   The deadline for special session proposals is January 31, 2019.
   The deadline for registration and submission of abstracts is May 31,
2019.

### INVITED SPEAKERS

The list of invited speakers with two winners of Young Scientists Award
of MAT TRIAD 2017 held in Bedlewo, Poland:

 - Dario Bini, University of Pisa, Italy  
 - Mirjam D&uuml;r, University of Augsburg, Germany   
 - Shmuel Friedland, University of Illinois, Chicago, USA  
 - Arnold Neumaier, University of Vienna, Austria  
 - Martin Stoll, Technical University of Chemnitz, Germany  
 - Zden&#283;k Strako&#353;, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic  

 - &Aacute;lvaro Barreras, Universidad Internacional de La Rioja, Spain   
 - Ryo Tabata, National Institute of Technology, Fukuoka, Japan  

### ORGANIZERS

   - Miro Rozlo&#382;n&iacute;k, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague  
   - Milan Hlad&iacute;k, Charles University, Prague  
   - Jan Bok, Charles University, Prague  
   - David Hartman, Charles University and Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague  
   - Miroslav T&#367;ma, Charles University, Prague  
   - Petr Tich&yacute;, Charles University, Prague   


### CONTACT

e-mail to organizers: <mattriad@math.cas.cz>

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Two faculty positions in Applied Math at the University of Colorado Boulder</a>

The Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Colorado at 
Boulder invites applications for two tenure track faculty positions at 
the Assistant Professor level to begin August 2019.

One position is in the area of computational mathematics, with possible
areas of emphasis including numerical analysis of differential 
equations, randomized numerical linear algebra, optimization and inverse 
problems, scientific computing, and related areas.

The other position is in the area of high dimensional data analysis (big 
data), with possible areas of emphasis including nonlinear optimization, 
analysis in high-dimensional spaces, randomized projections, 
probabilistic numerics, harmonic analysis, theoretical deep learning, 
and related areas.

For both positions, exceptional candidates in all fields of Applied 
Mathematics may be considered. Note that the most competitive candidates 
will have likely had postdoctoral training.

The candidate is expected to take an active role in undergraduate and 
graduate teaching, conduct a vigorous externally funded research 
program, advise graduate students, and participate in department and 
university governance.

For more details and to apply, please see (for the first and second 
positions, respectively):

<https://jobs.colorado.edu/jobs/JobDetail/?jobId=13079>

<https://jobs.colorado.edu/jobs/JobDetail/?jobId=12897>

Review of applications will begin on October 16, 2018; applications will 
be accepted until the position is filled.

Contact Stephen Becker, Daniel Appelo (chair of first search) or David 
Bortz (chair of second search) if you have any questions.

---------------

## <a name="nav6">Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures, Sandia</a>

Postdoctoral Appointee - Solvers for Emerging Architectures (Job ID: 663933)
Sandia National Labs, Albuquerque, NM

The Computational Mathematics Department is seeking a Postdoctoral Appointee in HPC multigrid solvers. Responsibilities 
include: (1) Conduct leading-edge research/publish in Algebraic Multigrid (AMG) methods for advanced architectures to 
support coupled multi-physics applications, (2) Software development and numerical investigation, (3) Work as part of a 
multi-disciplinary team and thrive in a fast-paced technical environment, (4) Collaborate with other staff members, (5) 
Travel as need to support ongoing projects


This position does not currently require a Department of Energy (DOE)-granted security clearance.

For more detailed information, go to  <http://jobs.sandia.gov> and search for Job ID 663933. You can also click the 
following link directly:


<https://hrss.sandia.gov/psp/pspr1/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRPM.HRS_JOB_OPENING.GBL?Action=U&HRS_JOB_OPENING_ID=663933&SL_TAB=APPROVALS&URL_ID=2>


Feel free to send Ray Tuminaro (<rstumin@sandia.gov>), email if you have any questions.

---------------

## <a name="nav7">Postdoctoral Fellowships at Berkeley Lab</a>

Computational Research Division (CRD) of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) has immediate openings for multiple postdoctoral fellow positions. We are looking for candidates with expertise and interest in parallel algorithm development and/or high-performance computing. The problem areas include Genomics, Graph Analytics, Randomized Algorithms, Sparse Matrices, and Machine Learning.

Applications are accepted until the position(s) are filled. More details and instructions to apply can be found here: <https://lbl.referrals.selectminds.com/jobs/computing-postdoctoral-scholar-1251>.

---------------

## <a name="nav8">Postdoc position at the clinical informatics lab, University of Michigan</a>

Postdoctoral position at  
Biomedical and Clinical Informatics Lab  
Department of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics  
University of Michigan  


Job Summary:

The Biomedical and Clinical Informatics Lab at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor has an immediate opening for a postdoctoral research fellow. Our laboratory specializes in designing computer-aided decision support systems for clinical applications, as well as developing novel signal/image processing, machine learning, and artificial intelligence (AI) techniques.

Responsibilities:

The applicant will apply algebraic and numerical methods to tensor data. Applicants must have completed a PhD in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics or other closely related fields and should have a strong mathematical background in algebra, optimization, computational mathematics and/or statistics. Fluency in English conversation and the team work skills necessary to collaborate in a multidisciplinary environment will be important assets. Additional roles include leadership and active participation in project management activities, including the administration of research projects. This position will require initiative and the ability to work without close supervision.

How to Apply:

Please send your current CV, a research statement, and a list of relevant publications to <hderksen@umich.edu>.

---------------

## <a name="nav9">1 year research post at Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa</a>

A one year research contract ("assegno di ricerca") in Numerical Linear Algebra is available under
the direction of Prof. Michele Benzi at the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa, Italy.  A PhD in mathematics
or computer science is required.  Preference will be given to candidates with some experience in 
applying large-scale linear algebra techniques to network analysis or quantum chemistry.  

The deadline for applications is November 26, 2018, with a tentative starting date of February 1, 2019.

Please see

<https://en.sns.it/bando/research-contract-part-research-project-%E2%80%9Cnumerical-linear-algebra-and-applications%E2%80%9D>

for details about the position and for instructions on how to apply.

---------------

## <a name="nav10">Graduate Fellowships, Computational Mathematics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA</a>

Emory University invites applications for Graduate Fellowships.  The
Departments of Mathematics and Computer Science offer M.Sc.  and PhD
tracks and a variety of possible research specializations.  For PhD
students in Mathematics, a number of five-year scholarships are
available.
 
Graduate students receive scholarships that cover all tuition
expenses, a stipend (minimum 31,000 USD per year), health insurance,
and professional development support funds (minimum 2,500 USD) to
support travel to conferences. Moreover, several special admissions
scholarships are available. More info:

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/admissions/finance_overview.html>
<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/professional-development/pds/index.html>
 
Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing are among the departments'
key focus areas. Our graduate program focuses on numerical linear
algebra, partial differential equations, and optimization and their
application to computational fluid dynamics, inverse problems, and
machine learning. Graduate students are offered excellent research
opportunities in these areas and opportunities for interdisciplinary
collaborations with leading experts from a variety of disciplines
including cardiology, radiology, biostatistics, biomedical
engineering, geophysics, and data science.  More information about our
research group can be found at:

<http://www.mathcs.emory.edu/Research/Area/ScientificComputing/>
 
International students are encouraged to apply, and successful
candidates will need to obtain a US visa. More info:

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/new_students/international.html>
 
The application deadline for Fall 2019 admission is December 15, 2018. 
Application instructions and further information can be found at

<http://www.graduateschool.emory.edu/admissions/index.html>

---------------

## <a name="nav11">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Dec 03, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.