
---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-07-02
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



In the digest this month are a number of conference and job announcements.

## CONTENTS

- [Sparse Days](#nav0)
- [Ph.D. positions on Model-based generation of linear algebra software](#nav1)
- [Open position at UTK/ICL](#nav2)
- [14 positions - Research Assistant (PhD candidate) available](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------
## <a name="nav0"></a><a href="https://sparsedays.cerfacs.fr/en/">Sparse Days</a>
Dear colleagues,

The annual Sparse Days meeting will be held at Cerfacs in Toulouse on
27th and 28th September 2018.

Registration for the Sparse Days is free but we ask people who are
coming to register as soon as possible although the deadline is August
26th. Please complete the form on the website
<https://sparsedays.cerfacs.fr/en/> indicating whether you want to give
a talk and whether you wish to attend the conference dinner. Although
an emphasis will be on parallel aspects, any talk that has an
association with sparsity is welcome. The length for a talk plus
questions is 30 minutes although this is negotiable in either
direction.

Information on accommodation can be found on the web page and a
limited amount of free on site accommodation should be available for
students. Students wanting to apply for this accommodation should
contact Brigitte Yzel on <yzel@cerfacs.fr>.

More information: <https://sparsedays.cerfacs.fr/en/>

Best wishes

Iain Duff

---------------

## <a name="nav1">Ph.D. positions on Model-based generation of linear algebra software</a>

The High-Performance and Automatic Computing group (HPAC) [1] at RWTH Aachen University (Germany) has immediate openings for fully-funded Ph.D. positions in computer science, to work on code generation for linear algebra and tensor operations. The research contributes to the Linnea project [2], and draws from the many compilers, libraries, and frameworks (BLIS, FLAME, TTC, TCCG, TBLIS, ...) developed within HPAC and the Science of High-Performance Computing group [3]. Applications from excellent candidates are invited.

These positions are part of a collaboration between RWTH Aachen University and The University of Texas at Austin, and will be co-supervised by Prof. Paolo Bientinesi (RWTH) and Prof. Robert van de Geijn (UT Austin). Research stays at UT Austin are expected.

The appointments --either at the payscale TVL-13 (about 3600 Euros/month gross at the entry level [2]) or as a tax-free stipend (2000 Euros/month net)-- will be initially for one year, and will be extended for two extra years upon positive evaluation.

**Applications** 
To apply, please email the following documents to Prof. Paolo Bientinesi (<pauldj@aices.rwth-aachen.de>), with subject "PhD @ HPAC":

- cover letter (why are you applying? what are your interests?)  
- detailed CV  
- transcripts from your Bachelor and MS degrees  
- contact info of at least two references  
- pointers to your previous publications and software projects (if any)  

**Deadline**  
The review of applications will begin *immediately* and will continue until the positions are filled.

**References**

[1]: <hpac.rwth-aachen.de>
[2]: <https://github.com/HPAC/linnea>
[3]: <shpc.ices.utexas.edu>
[4]: <https://github.com/flame/blis>

**Requirements**

- Master's degree in computer science or related field.  
- The project lies at the intersection of a variety of topics, including numerical linear algebra, high-performance computing, automation, compilers & code-generation, parallel computing. Because of this, the candidates need to be able to acquire knowledge in new subjects quickly and independently.  
- Good knowledge of C and demonstrated ability to develop high-quality compilers or libraries or software in general. Knowledge of other languages such as Julia, Mathematica, C++, Python, Matlab, is a plus.  
- Ability to work productively both independently and as part of an interdisciplinary team.  
- Excellent oral and written English communication skills.

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Open position at UTK/ICL</a>

**Open positions: Research Scientist (with Master or PhD) or Postdoctoral Researcher**

Open positions in Jack Dongarra's ICL team at the University of Tennessee Knoxville
for a full-time scientist (with Master or PhD) or postdoctoral researcher to participate in the design, development and maintenance of numerical software libraries for solving linear algebra problems on large distributed memory machines with multicore processors,
hardware accelerators, and performance monitoring capabilities for new and advanced hardware and software technologies; to help write research papers documenting research findings; to present the team's work at conferences; and to help lead students and research
team in their research endeavors as related to ongoing and future projects. Given the nature of the work, there will be opportunities for publication, travel, and high profile professional networking in academia, labs, and industry.

A MS or PhD in computer science, computational sciences, or math is preferred.

Background in at least one of the following areas is preferred: numerical linear algebra, high performance computing, performance monitoring, machine learning, or data analytics. Full-time employment for up to 4 years, with the possibility of further extensions
based on funding availability and performance. 
Starting date is July 1 or later. For further information contact Jack Dongarra, <dongarra@icl.utk.edu>.

Joining this team will offer qualified candidates exciting career opportunities
in the participation in the Exascale Computing Projects (ECP) by the U.S. Department of Energy. ICL is involve in a number of DOE-ECP projects such as 

- SLATE (http://icl.utk.edu/slate/),  
- PEEKS (<http://icl.utk.edu/peeks/>),  
- xSDK (<http://www.icl.utk.edu/research/xsdk4ecp>),  
- Exa-PAPI (<http://icl.utk.edu/exa-papi/>),  
- CEED (<https://ceed.exascaleproject.org/>),  
- Distributed Tasking for Exascale (PaRSEC) (<http://icl.utk.edu/dte/>),   
- MAGMA (<http://icl.cs.utk.edu/magma/>),   
- and FFT-ECP, and others.  

We encourage both fresh PhD graduates, as well as seasoned HPC veterans to apply. For more information, check out the job offer at
<http://www.icl.utk.edu/content/job-opportunities>
(section Research Position: "Software Engineer?, ?Numerical Linear Algebra" and ?Research Performance Measurement and Modeling?).

---------------

## <a name="nav3">14 positions - Research Assistant (PhD candidate) available</a>

The newly established, interdisciplinary Research Training Group on 
"Differential Equation- and Data driven
Models in Life Sciences and Fluid Dynamic" (DAEDALUS) is a collaborative 
venture of the Technische Universit&auml;t
Berlin jointly with Freie Universit&auml;t Berlin and 
Otto-von-Guericke-Universit&auml;t Magdeburg.

The main goal of DAEDALUS is the analysis of the interplay between 
incorporation of data and differential
equation-based modelling, which is one of the key problems in 
model-based research of the 21st century.
DAEDALUS focuses both on theoretical insights and on applications in 
life sciences (brain-computer interfaces and biochemistry)
as well as in fluid dynamics. The projects cover a scientific range from 
machine learning, mathematical theory
of model reduction and uncertainty quantification to respective 
applications in turbulence theory, simulation of complex
nonlinear flows as well as of molecular dynamics in chemical and 
biological systems. Detailed project descriptions can
be found under

[www.daedalus.berlin](http://www.daedalus.berlin).

DAEDALUS also offers collaborative supervision from leading 
international scientists, embedded in one of the most
dense and innovative academic regions in Europe.

Requirements: Successfully completed university degree (Master, Diploma 
or equivalent) in Computer Science, Engineering,
Mathematics, Physics or other related disciplines; an excellent command 
of English, together with good academic
writing and presentation skills.

We are looking for highly motivated, inquisitive, enthusiastic, and 
result-driven PhD candidates with an excellent academic
record and strong interest in interdisciplinary scientific work.

Deatils of the application process can be found under
<http://www.personalabteilung.tu-berlin.de/menue/jobs/>

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Aug 06, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.
