---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-03-05
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



Applications are now open for the SIAM james H. Wilkonson Prize for Numerical Software.

## CONTENTS

- [James H. Wilkinson Prize for Numerical Software - Call for Entries](#nav0)
- [Graduate Student Modeling (IMSM) Workshop, July 2018](#nav1)
- [Postdoc Positions in Computational Electromagnetics](#nav2)
- [Two postdoc openings at Sandia National Labs](#nav3)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav4)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">James H. Wilkinson Prize for Numerical Software - Call for Entries</a>

We are now accepting entries for the [James H. Wilkinson Prize for Numerical Software](http://www.siam.org/prizes/sponsored/wilkinson_ns.php). The prize is awarded every four years to the authors of an outstanding piece of numerical software. The prize is awarded for an entry that best addresses all phases of the preparation of high-quality numerical software. It is intended to recognize innovative software in scientific computing and to encourage researchers in the earlier stages of their career.

SIAM will award the Wilkinson Prize for Numerical Software at the SIAM Conference on Computational Science and Engineering (CSE19). The award will consist of $3,000 and a plaque. As part of the award, the recipient(s) will be expected to present a lecture at the conference.

**Eligibility Criteria**

Selection will be based on: clarity of the software implementation and documentation, importance of the application(s) addressed by the software; portability, reliability, efficiency, and usability of the software implementation; clarity and depth of analysis of the algorithms and the software in the accompanying paper; and quality of the test software.

Candidates must have worked in mathematics or science for at most 12 years (full time equivalent) after receiving their PhD as of January 1 of the award year, allowing for breaks in continuity. The prize committee can make exceptions, if in their opinion the candidate is at an equivalent stage in their career.

For the 2019 award, a candidate must have received their PhD no earlier than January 1, 2007.

**Entry Deadline**  

June 1, 2018

**Required Materials**

- CVs of the authors of the software, at most two pages per author (PDF)    
- A two-page summary of the main features of the algorithm and software implementation (PDF)  
- A paper describing the algorithm and the software implementation (PDF)  
- Open source software written in a widely available high-level programming language. The software should be submitted in a gzipped .tar archive with a README file describing the contents of the archive. Each submission should include documentation, examples of the use of the software, a test program, and scripts for executing the test programs.  

**Previous recipients**

Previous recipients of the James H. Wilkinson Prize for Numerical Software are

2015 Patrick Farrell, Simon Funke, David Ham, and Marie Rognes for dolfin-adjoint   
2011 Andreas Waechter and Carl Laird for IPOPT  
2007 Wolfgang Bangerth, Guido Kanschat, and Ralf Hartmann for deal.II  
2003 Jonathan Shewchuk for Triangle  
1999 Matteo Frigo and Steven Johnson for FFTW   
1995 Chris Bischof and Alan Carle for ADIFOR 2.0   
1991 Linda Petzold for DASSL  

**Selection Committee**
Jorge Mor&eacute; (Chair), Argonne National Laboratory
Sven Hammarling, Numerical Algorithms Group Ltd and University of Manchester
Michael Heroux, Sandia National Laboratories
Randall J. LeVeque, University of Washington
Katherine Yelick, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

[Learn more](http://www.siam.org/prizes/) about our prize program and [view all prizes with open calls](http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations.php). Contact <prizeadmin@siam.org> with questions regarding nomination procedure.


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="http://www.samsi.info/imsm-18">Graduate Student Modeling (IMSM) Workshop, July 2018</a>
The 24th Industrial Mathematical & Statistical Modeling (IMSM) Workshop for
Graduate Students will take place at North Carolina State University,
between 15-25 July 2018.  The workshop is sponsored by the Statistical and
Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI) together with the Center
for Research in Scientific Computation (CRSC) and the Department of
Mathematics at North Carolina State University.

The IMSM workshop exposes graduate students in mathematics, engineering,
and statistics to exciting real-world problems from industry and
government. The workshop provides students with experience in a research
team environment and exposure to possible career opportunities. On the
first day, a Software Carpentry bootcamp will bring students up-to-date on
their programming skills in Python/Matlab and R, and introduce them to
version control systems and software repositories.

Local expenses and travel expenses will be covered for students at US 
institutions.  
The application deadline is April 15, 2018.  
Information is available at <http://www.samsi.info/imsm-18>  
and questions can be directed to <grad@samsi.info>  

With best regards,  
Mansoor Haider, Ilse Ipsen, Pierre Gremaud, and Ralph Smith

---------------

## <a name="nav2">Postdoc Positions in Computational Electromagnetics</a>

The high powered electromagnetics effects branch, part of the United States Air Force Research Lab at Kirtland AFB located in Albuquerque, New Mexico, has advertised three postdoc opportunities for talented and knowledgeable individuals through the National Research Council (NRC) Research Associateship Program.

RO#: 13.10.03.C0029  
Advanced computational plasma physics modeling for next generation technologies  
Adviser: Dr.Michael White (<Michael.White.113@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=C0029>

RO#: 13.10.03.B6938  
Algorithm Development for Electromagnetic Plasma Simulation  
Adviser: Dr.Andrew Greenwood (<andrew.greenwood@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=B6938>

RO#: 13.10.03.B6936  
State-of-the-Art, Massively Parallel Computational Electromagnetics  
Adviser: Dr.Andrew Greenwood (<andrew.greenwood@us.af.mil>)  
<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=13&ROPCD=131003&RONum=B6936>

All three opportunities require expertise in at least two of the following areas: plasma physics (simulation), computational electromagnetics, applied mathematics (computational linear algebra), particle-in-cell methods, and parallel computing. The initial postdoc award will be for one year ($74,000 base stipend plus $3,500 travel money) and it can be extended by one more year (with a stipend increase) upon satisfactory progress. Student who will graduate before the award begins, postdoc researchers with recent degrees awarded, and senior researchers are all eligible to apply. Selected associates will receive an appropriately higher stipend based on the number of years of experience past their PhD.

It is expected that any interested applicant should first look at the NRC requirements to see if they are eligible and what supporting documents will be needed. Then Dr.Michael White or Dr.Andrew Greenwood should be contacted with an up-to-date CV and an outline of proposed research and methodology (no more than one page). The adviser will then work with the applicant into expanding the proposal which is then submitted as a part of the application. The NRC RAP accepts applications four times a year with the next window opening online on March 1, 2018 and closing on May 1, 2018. All applications require adviser-approved proposals. All other applications will be automatically rejected by the submission system. Therefore it is recommended that the advisers be contacted early-on.

***All three opportunities require US citizenship.***

US citizenship is mandatory for all three positions. In addition, the associate must clear a background check to be able to work on-base.

Further information is available at
<http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/rap/>  

<http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/Program.aspx?LabCode=13&ReturnURL=%2fRAPLab10%2fOpportunity%2fPrograms.aspx%3fLabCode%3d13>

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Two postdoc openings at Sandia National Labs</a>

Sandia National Labs is a large DOE research laboratory located in enchanted New Mexico, USA. We are seeking two postdoctoral candidates to perform cutting-edge research in scientific computing at the Center for Computing Research in the following areas:

- Combinatorial Scientific Computing (660662)  
- Linear Systems Solvers (660663)  

To see the full text and to apply, please go to [www.sandia.gov/careers/](http://www.sandia.gov/careers/) , "view all jobs", and search for the title or the job id.

Erik Boman  
Center for Computing Research  
Sandia National Labs

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Apr 02, 2018.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.

