---
title: SIAG LA digest
date: 2018-12-03
author: Jen Pestana
comments: true
---



In the digest this month are a number of job and conference announcements.

## CONTENTS

- [ICIAM 2019 - Deadlines Approaching for Minisymposia Proposals, Contributed Papers, and Posters](#nav0)
- [Threshold Networks Workshop](#nav1)
- [PhD Fellowships in Computational Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (CSEM) program, ICES, UT Austin](#nav2)
- [Postdoc in Scientific Computing/Machine Learning at William and Mary](#nav3)
- [Lectureship in Applied and Computational Mathematics](#nav4)
- [Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest](#nav5)

---------------

## <a name="nav0">ICIAM 2019 - Deadlines Approaching for Minisymposia Proposals, Contributed Papers, and Posters</a>

The 9th International Congress on Industrial and Applied Mathematics (ICIAM 2019)  will be held in Valencia, Spain, July 15-19, 2019.

Delegates willing to organize a Minisymposium, or submit a Contributed Paper or Poster are invited to visit the Submissions & Calls section within the 'For Participants' menu tab at <www.iciam2019.com>.

Deadlines  
- Minisymposium Proposals Deadline: December 10, 2018  
- Contributed Paper Submission Deadline: January 7, 2019  
- Poster Submission Deadline: April 1, 2019


---------------

## <a name="nav1"></a><a href="https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/conference/fac-sci/maths-sci/threshold-networks/">Threshold Networks Workshop</a>
This workshop will bring together a community of people interested in both
networks and dynamics, with an eye to both mathematical tractability
and applications to biology, engineering, physics, and the social sciences. 
 The emphasis will be on 'thresholds' in their broadest sense as exemplified by 
node dynamics or interactions that are described by simple, yet possibly 
non-smooth or discontinuous switch-like processes.  The workshop will cover 
both theory and applications.

The meeting will have no parallel sessions, and it is expected to involve 
around 60 participants (with 12 main speakers) and contributed poster 
presentations.

Speakers:

Alex Arenas, Universidad Rovira i Virgili, Spain   
Mario Di Bernardo, University of Bristol, UK  
Ginestra Bianconi, Queen Mary University of London, UK  
Des Higham, University of Strathclyde, UK  
Renaud Lambiotte, University of Oxford, UK  
Naoki Masuda, University of Bristol, UK  
Peter Mucha, University of North Carolina, USA  
Sarah Muldoon, University at Buffalo, USA  
Yamir Moreno, University of Zaragoza, Spain   


Important dates

Registration deadline: 1st June 2019  
Poster abstract submission deadline: 12th April 2019.  
Notification of acceptance: 1st May 2019

The registration fee for the conference is 100.00 GBP.

A 'Tutorial Day' (covering key concepts in dynamical systems and network 
science) will also take place prior to the meeting (on July 21).  Some
financial assistance may be available to assist graduate students who attend
both the training workshop and the conference.

Further details of this meeting and how to register may be  found at
<https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/conference/fac-sci/maths-sci/threshold-networks/>

Scientific Organisers  
Yi Ming Lai, R&uuml;diger Thul, and Stephen Coombes, University of Nottingham  
Mason A. Porter, UCLA  

Enquiries should be sent to: <ThresholdNetworks2019@nottingham.ac.uk>

---------------

## <a name="nav2">PhD Fellowships in Computational Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (CSEM) program, ICES, UT Austin</a>

The Institute for Computational Science and Engineering (ICES) at the
University of Texas at Austin invites applications for four-year
PhD fellowships in its Computational Science, Engineering, and
Mathematics (CSEM) graduate program. The fellowships cover tuition and
fees and feature generous stipends.

The CSEM program offers a unique interdisciplinary PhD degree that
integrates applied mathematics, computing, and applications in
science, engineering, medicine, and beyond. Students conduct research
in such mathematical and computational areas as scientific computing,
uncertainty quantification, numerical analysis, optimization, parallel
algorithms, inverse problems, controls, machine learning, and data
analysis, with applications in materials, engineering, medicine, life
sciences, geosciences, physical sciences, and others. Students use
leading-edge supercomputers and visualization facilities at the Texas
Advanced Computing Center (TACC) for their work.

ICES brings together under one roof applied mathematicians, computer
scientists, statisticians, and computational scientists/engineers from
23 academic departments to address challenging problems that can be
tackled only from an integrated perspective. Most of ICES' 250+
graduate students, postdocs, research scientists, core faculty,
visitors, and staff are housed together in a 180,000 sq ft
state-of-the-art building.

To apply for Fall 2019 admission and to be considered for a PhD
fellowship, please visit <https://www.ices.utexas.edu/graduate-studies/>.
The application deadline is December 15, 2018.

---------------

## <a name="nav3">Postdoc in Scientific Computing/Machine Learning at William and Mary</a>

Applications are invited for a postdoc position in the Computer Science
Department at the College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA, USA. 
The position is initially for one year, renewable for a second year based 
upon performance. The candidate is expected to lead together with 
professors A. Stathopoulos and Z. Liu an NSF-funded project of designing 
and implementing large scale Singular Value Decomposition solvers 
optimized for modern machine learning algorithms. It has two specific 
objectives. First, to provide high performance implementations of state-of-
the-art Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) techniques, including 
randomized, streaming, and iterative methods, which will deliver consistent 
user experience for a diverge range of problems and requirements. 
Second, to implement high level interfaces that enable downstream 
applications in machine learning and SVD solvers to interoperate. The 
candidates will also be exposed to opportunities to tackle tough, large scale 
machine learning problems alongside with statisticians and engineers. 

Required Qualifications: Ph.D. In a scientific computing area, with strong 
programming skills in C/C++/Python. Strong background in two of the three 
areas: numerical linear algebra, high performance computing, and machine 
learning applications.

Preferred Qualifications: Strong background in all above three areas, and 
experience in creating/maintaining open source software at public 
repositories.

To apply submit a vita and the names of at least two references at 
<https://jobs.wm.edu/postings/33877> , Position Number: F0991W.  
Reviewing of applications starts on Dec 10, 2018, and continues until the 
position is filled.

---------------

## <a name="nav4">Lectureship in Applied and Computational Mathematics</a>

The Department of Mathematical Sciences at the University of Liverpool 
invites applications for a lectureship position in the area of Applied and 
Computational Mathematics, affiliated with the Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council funded Liverpool Centre for Mathematics in 
Healthcare. 

We are particularly interested in individuals from areas like 
data, imaging, learning and computational sciences who are also keen on
developing novel mathematics for industrial or clinical applications. The 
University is committed to diversity and equality of opportunity.

See <https://tinyurl.com/Liverpool-Post-Mar2019> for full details.
Application deadline: 1 March 2019.

---------------

## <a name="nav5">Submissions for next SIAM-LA digest</a>

The next SIAM-LA Digest is due to be sent out on Jan 07, 2019.
Please send any postings for the next Digest to siam-la at siam.org. 
Only SIAG/LA members may submit postings.  To contact the list owner, 
send an email to siam-la-owner at siam.org.