---
title: SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Conference 2015
page: http://people.cas.uab.edu/~cnavasca/siam-seas/
start_date: 2015-03-20 12:00:00
end_date:   2015-03-22 12:00:00
where: Birmingham, Alabama
---

The 39th SIAM Southeastern Atlantic Section Conference (SIAM-SEAS 2015) will be
hosted at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, on March 20-22, 2015, with a
social event on March 20, and scientific programs on March 21-22. We expect
that SIAM-SEAS 2015 will continue to provide an inspiring and productive forum
in applied mathematics to get acquainted with the most recent developments, to
stimulate and exchange new ideas, and to formulate new challenging problems
that will have an impact on diverse fields of applications. The conference will
feature the following plenary speakers:

 - Yuefan Deng, Stony Brook University
 - Irena Lasiecka, University of Memphis
 - Tai-Ping Liu, Academia Sinica
 - James Nagy, Emory University

We invite scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and students (graduate and
undergraduate) in all areas of applied mathematics, from the United States and
from other countries, to participate. There will be limited funding for student
travel support, and there will be three prizes for the best student
presentations and posters.

There are three formats of participation:  Minisymposia, contributed talks and
a poster session. The important deadlines are as follows:

 - Submission of minisymposium proposals by minisymposium organizers is due by January 5th, 2015.
 - Submission of abstracts for minisymposium talks, contributed talks and posters is due by February 23rd, 2015.

Hotel rooms with discounted rates are available for booking before deadlines
set by several local hotels (various dates from February 26, 2015 to March 5,
2015).

