_drafts/month.md, before:

---
title: A month in linear algebra
date: 
author: David Bindel
comments: true
---

Several conferences of possible interest to SIAG-LA members were
announced this month on the SIAG-LA digest and NA-digest, including:

- Workshop on [Mining Networks and Graphs][1] in April 2015
- Workshop on
  [Low-Rank Approximation for High Performance Sparse Solvers][2] in
  June 2015
- [26th Biennial Numerical Analysis Conference][3] in June 2015
  (second announcement)
- [SIAM Control and Applications][4] in July 2015 -- upcoming CFP deadline

[SIAG/LA prize nominations][prize] are due February 15, 2015!  Also, the [Gene
Golub SIAM Summer School on RandNLA][randnla] in June 2015 is now accepting
applications (deadline is February 1, 2015), and there is a [call for proposals
for the next G2S3][g2s3call] out (letter of intent due January 31, 2015).

[1]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-04-30-mining.html
[2]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-06-24-low-rank.html
[3]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-06-23-strathclyde.html
[4]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-07-08-siamct.html

[prize]: http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations/nom_siagla.php
[randnla]: http://www.cs.rpi.edu//~drinep/G2S3_RandNLA_2015/
[g2s3call]: http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/summer_call.php

Possibly interesting items from the web at large:

- [Mathworks Logo Part 5: Evolution of the Logo][logo]
- [IMAGE: Bulletin of ILAS, Fall 2014][image]
- [EigTool is now on GitHub][eigtool]
- The [Blaze 2.2 C++ LA library][blaze] has been released
- [SIAM sponsored activities at the Joint Math Meeting](http://www.siam.org/meetings/jmm15/index.htm) include talks and a minismposium on concentration inequalities for random matrices
- [AMS Gibbs Lecture: Dan Spielman on Graphs, Vectors, and Matrices][spielman]

[logo]: http://blogs.mathworks.com/cleve/2014/12/01/mathworks-logo-part-five-evolution-of-the-logo/
[image]: http://www.ilasic.org/IMAGE/IMAGES/image53.pdf
[eigtool]: https://github.com/eigtool/eigtool
[blaze]: https://code.google.com/p/blaze-lib/
[spielman]: http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/meetings/national/jmm2015/2168_speakers#spi

Commit message:

Updated Sparse Days blurb; added blurb for clustering workshop (also part of CIMI special semester); added items from 2015-12-16 NA digest to monthly summary.

_drafts/month.md, after:

---
title: A month in linear algebra
date: 
author: David Bindel
comments: true
---

Several conferences of possible interest to SIAG-LA members were
announced this month on the SIAG-LA digest and NA-digest, including:

- Workshop on [Mining Networks and Graphs][1] in April 2015
- Workshop on
  [Low-Rank Approximation for High Performance Sparse Solvers][2] in
  June 2015
- [26th Biennial Numerical Analysis Conference][3] in June 2015
  (second announcement)
- [SIAM Control and Applications][4] in July 2015 -- upcoming CFP
  deadline
- In the context of the
  [CIMI semester on "High performance linear and nonlinear methods for large scale applications"][cimi],
  there is a call open for
  [Sparse Days in St. Girons III][5]
  in June 2015 and
  a workshop on [Innovative Clustering Methods][6] in July 2015

[SIAG/LA prize nominations][prize] are due February 15, 2015!  Also, the [Gene
Golub SIAM Summer School on RandNLA][randnla] in June 2015 is now accepting
applications (deadline is February 1, 2015), and there is a [call for proposals
for the next G2S3][g2s3call] out (letter of intent due January 31, 2015).

[1]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-04-30-mining.html
[2]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-06-24-low-rank.html
[3]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-06-23-strathclyde.html
[4]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-07-08-siamct.html
[5]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-06-29-sparse.html
[6]: {{ site.baseurl }}meetings/2015-07-06-clustering.html

[cimi]: http://cimi-semester-hpc.fr/
[prize]: http://www.siam.org/prizes/nominations/nom_siagla.php
[randnla]: http://www.cs.rpi.edu//~drinep/G2S3_RandNLA_2015/
[g2s3call]: http://www.siam.org/students/g2s3/summer_call.php

Possibly interesting items from the web at large:

- [Mathworks Logo Part 5: Evolution of the Logo][logo]
- [IMAGE: Bulletin of ILAS, Fall 2014][image]
- [EigTool is now on GitHub][eigtool]
- The [Blaze 2.2 C++ LA library][blaze] has been released
- The [ViennaCL 1.6 LA library][viennacl] (CUDA/OpenCL/OpenMP) has been released
- [SIAM sponsored activities at the Joint Math Meeting](http://www.siam.org/meetings/jmm15/index.htm) include talks and a minismposium on concentration inequalities for random matrices
- [AMS Gibbs Lecture: Dan Spielman on Graphs, Vectors, and Matrices][spielman]

[logo]: http://blogs.mathworks.com/cleve/2014/12/01/mathworks-logo-part-five-evolution-of-the-logo/
[image]: http://www.ilasic.org/IMAGE/IMAGES/image53.pdf
[eigtool]: https://github.com/eigtool/eigtool
[blaze]: https://code.google.com/p/blaze-lib/
[viennacl]: http://viennacl.sourceforge.net/
[spielman]: http://jointmathematicsmeetings.org/meetings/national/jmm2015/2168_speakers#spi
